SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Digital Asset 
Market Clarity Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.

               TITLE I--RESPONSIBLE SECURITIES INNOVATION

Sec. 101. Short title.
Sec. 102. Disclosure requirements for certain transactions involving 
                            ancillary assets.
Sec. 103. Exemption and rulemaking for certain transactions involving 
                            ancillary assets.
Sec. 104. Special disposition restrictions by related persons.
Sec. 105. Characteristics of network tokens.
Sec. 106. Exemptive authority.
Sec. 107. Modernization of recordkeeping requirements.
Sec. 108. Modernization of securities regulations for digital asset 
                            activities.
Sec. 109. Insider trading with respect to ancillary asset transactions.
Sec. 110. Securities Investor Protection Corporation applicability.
Sec. 111. Investor and consumer protection enforcement.

              TITLE II--PROTECTING AGAINST ILLICIT FINANCE

Sec. 201. Treatment under the Bank Secrecy Act and sanctions laws.
Sec. 202. Digital asset examination standards.
Sec. 203. Preventing Illicit Finance Through Partnership Act.
Sec. 204. Financial Technology Protection Act.
Sec. 205. Digital asset kiosks.
Sec. 206. Study on illicit use of digital assets.

       TITLE III--RESPONSIBLE INNOVATION IN DECENTRALIZED FINANCE

Sec. 301. Rulemaking on application of existing securities intermediary 
                            requirements and existing Bank Secrecy Act 
                            requirements to non-decentralized finance 
                            trading protocols.
Sec. 302. Illicit finance obligations for distributed ledger messaging 
                            systems.
Sec. 303. Special measure relating to certain transmittals of funds.
Sec. 304. Offshore stablecoin report.
Sec. 305. Temporary hold for certain digital asset transactions.
Sec. 306. Voluntary cybersecurity program for decentralized finance 
                            trading protocols.
Sec. 307. Amendments to monetary instrument definition.
Sec. 308. Risk management standards for digital asset intermediaries.
Sec. 309. Study on digital asset mixers and tumblers.
Sec. 310. GAO study on intermediaries in foreign jurisdictions.
Sec. 311. Studies on foreign adversary activities.
Sec. 312. Treasury study on cybersecurity standards.
Sec. 313. Studies on financial stability risks of decentralized finance 
                            trading and credit in digital commodity 
                            markets.

                TITLE IV--RESPONSIBLE BANKING INNOVATION

Sec. 401. Permissibility of digital asset activities.
Sec. 402. Joint rules for portfolio margining determinations.
Sec. 403. Capital requirements to address netting agreements.
Sec. 404. Prohibiting interest and yield on payment stablecoins.
Sec. 405. Expanded securities portfolio margin accounts under the 
                            Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970.

               TITLE V--RESPONSIBLE REGULATORY INNOVATION

Sec. 501. CFTC-SEC Micro-Innovation Sandbox.
Sec. 502. International cooperation.
Sec. 503. Automated regulatory compliance study.
Sec. 504. Report on legislative recommendations.
Sec. 505. Tokenization of securities.
Sec. 506. Voluntary adoption of National Institute of Standards and 
                            Technology post-quantum cryptography 
                            standards.
Sec. 507. International coordination to combat digital asset illicit 
                            finance.
Sec. 508. Annual report on foreign digital asset trading volume, 
                            compliance with United States standards and 
                            remediation actions.
Sec. 509. AI innovation labs.

    TITLE VI--PROTECTING SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS AND SOFTWARE INNOVATION

Sec. 601. Protecting software developers.
Sec. 602. Safe harbor for nonfungible tokens.
Sec. 603. Study on nonfungible tokens.
Sec. 604. Blockchain Regulatory Certainty Act.
Sec. 605. Keep Your Coins Act.

                TITLE VII--PROTECTING CUSTOMER PROPERTY

Sec. 701. Customer property protections for ancillary assets and 
                            digital commodities in bankruptcy.
Sec. 702. Insolvency safe harbor.

                    TITLE VIII--CUSTOMER PROTECTION

Sec. 801. Educational materials.
Sec. 802. Savings clauses.
Sec. 803. Study on expanding financial literacy.
Sec. 804. Consultation with SIPC regarding mandatory broker-dealer 
                            disclosures to investors concerning the 
                            status of payment stablecoins and digital 
                            commodities.

                        TITLE IX--OTHER MATTERS

Sec. 901. Joint Advisory Committee on Digital Assets.
Sec. 902. Memorandum of understanding.
Sec. 903. FinCEN appropriations.
Sec. 904. Build Now Act.
Sec. 905. Rulemakings.
Sec. 906. Effective date.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Ancillary asset; ancillary asset originator; network 
        token.--The terms ``ancillary asset'', ``ancillary asset 
        originator'', and ``network token'' have the meanings given 
        those terms in section 4B(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, as 
        added by this Act.
            (2) Bank secrecy act.--The term ``Bank Secrecy Act'' 
        means--
                    (A) section 21 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act 
                (12 U.S.C. 1829b);
                    (B) chapter 2 of title I of Public Law 91-508 (12 
                U.S.C. 1951 et seq.); and
                    (C) subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31, United 
                States Code.
            (3) Commission.--Except where otherwise expressly provided, 
        the term ``Commission'' means the Securities and Exchange 
        Commission.
            (4) Coordinated control.--With respect to any distributed 
        ledger system and a related ancillary asset, the term 
        ``coordinated control'' has the meaning given the term by the 
        Commission pursuant to rules adopted under section 104(b).
            (5) Decentralized governance system.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``decentralized 
                governance system'' means, with respect to a 
                distributed ledger system, any transparent, rules-based 
                system permitting persons to form consensus or reach 
                agreement in the development, provision, publication, 
                maintenance, or administration of the distributed 
                ledger system, in which participation is not limited 
                to, or under the control of, any person or group of 
                persons under common control.
                    (B) Relationship of persons to decentralized 
                governance systems.--With respect to a decentralized 
                governance system, the decentralized governance system 
                and any persons participating in the decentralized 
                governance system shall be treated as separate persons 
                unless those persons are under common control or acting 
                pursuant to an agreement to act in concert.
                    (C) Legal entities for decentralized governance 
                systems.--The term ``decentralized governance system'' 
                shall include a legal entity, including a decentralized 
                unincorporated nonprofit association or other entity 
                created pursuant to State law, used to implement the 
                rules-based system described in subparagraph (A), 
                provided that the legal entity does not operate 
                pursuant to centralized management. For the purposes of 
                this subparagraph, the delegation of ministerial or 
                administrative authority at the direction of the 
                participants in a decentralized governance system shall 
                not be construed to be centralized management.
                    (D) Rule of construction.--For purposes of this 
                Act, and the amendments made by this Act, a 
                decentralized governance system shall not be deemed to 
                be a person or a group of persons acting under common 
                control.
            (6) Digital asset; digital asset service provider.--The 
        terms ``digital asset'' and ``digital asset service provider'' 
        have the meanings given those terms in section 2 of the GENIUS 
        Act (12 U.S.C. 5901).
            (7) Digital asset intermediary.--The term ``digital asset 
        intermediary'' means a person that is engaged in digital asset 
        activities and required by law to register with the Commodity 
        Futures Trading Commission or with the Commission under the 
        Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.).
            (8) Digital commodity.--The term ``digital commodity'' has 
        the meaning given the term in section 1a of the Commodity 
        Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a), as added by this Act.
            (9) Distributed ledger.--The term ``distributed ledger'' 
        means technology--
                    (A) through which data is shared across a network 
                that creates a public digital ledger of verified 
                transactions or information among network participants; 
                and
                    (B) in which cryptography is used to link the data 
                described in subparagraph (A) to--
                            (i) maintain the integrity of the digital 
                        ledger described in that subparagraph; and
                            (ii) execute other functions.
            (10) Distributed ledger application.--The term 
        ``distributed ledger application'' means executable software 
        that is deployed to and maintained on a distributed ledger and 
        composed of source code that is publicly available, including a 
        smart contract or any network of smart contracts, or other 
        similar technology.
            (11) Distributed ledger protocol.--The term ``distributed 
        ledger protocol'' means publicly available source code of a 
        distributed ledger that is executed by the network participants 
        of a distributed ledger to facilitate its functioning, or other 
        similar technology.
            (12) Distributed ledger system.--The term ``distributed 
        ledger system'' means a distributed ledger (together with its 
        distributed ledger protocol), a distributed ledger application, 
        or a network of distributed ledger applications.
            (13) Related person.--The term ``related person'', with 
        respect to an ancillary asset originator or an ancillary 
        asset--
                    (A) means--
                            (i) any person that is, or within the 
                        preceding 36-month period was--
                                    (I) a founder or person serving in 
                                a similar capacity with respect to the 
                                ancillary asset originator; and
                                    (II) a beneficial owner of not less 
                                than 4 percent of the total amount of 
                                outstanding units of an ancillary asset 
                                associated with the ancillary asset 
                                originator;
                            (ii) any person that is, or in the 
                        preceding 12-month period was, an executive 
                        officer, director, trustee, general partner, 
                        owner of more than 10 percent of any class of 
                        equity shares of the ancillary asset 
                        originator, or person serving in a similar 
                        capacity with respect to the ancillary asset 
                        originator;
                            (iii) any person, or group of persons under 
                        common control, that beneficially owns, or in 
                        the preceding 6-month period owned, 10 percent 
                        or more of the total amount of outstanding 
                        units of the ancillary asset; and
                            (iv) any person, or group of persons under 
                        common control, that beneficially owns, or in 
                        the preceding 6-month period owned, covered 
                        tokens (as that term is defined in section 
                        104(a)) that equal not less than 2 percent of 
                        the total amount of outstanding units of the 
                        ancillary asset; and
                    (B) does not include a decentralized governance 
                system.
            (14) Securities laws.--The term ``securities laws'' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 3(a) of the Securities 
        Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)).
            (15) Smart contract.--The term ``smart contract'' means a 
        self-executing contract or program that--
                    (A) is stored on a distributed ledger system; and
                    (B) automatically executes or enforces digital 
                asset transactions upon the occurrence of explicit, 
                pre-determined conditions encoded in the contract or 
                program, without intervention, other than to provide 
                data, by any entity or natural person.

               TITLE I--RESPONSIBLE SECURITIES INNOVATION

SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Lummis-Gillibrand Responsible 
Financial Innovation Act of 2026''.

SEC. 102. DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS INVOLVING 
              ANCILLARY ASSETS.

    (a) In General.--The Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.) 
is amended by inserting after section 4A (15 U.S.C. 77d-1) the 
following:

``SEC. 4B. REQUIREMENTS WITH RESPECT TO CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS INVOLVING 
              ANCILLARY ASSETS.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Ancillary asset.--The term `ancillary asset' means a 
        network token, the value of which is dependent upon the 
        entrepreneurial or managerial efforts of an ancillary asset 
        originator or a related person, as those concepts are further 
        specified by the Commission by regulation.
            ``(2) Ancillary asset originator.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `ancillary asset 
                originator' means, with respect to a particular 
                ancillary asset, a person that (whether directly or 
                through 1 or more subsidiary or controlled entities)--
                            ``(i) initially offers, sells, or 
                        distributes the ancillary asset; or
                            ``(ii) during the 12-month period beginning 
                        on the date on which the ancillary asset is 
                        initially offered, sold, or distributed, 
                        controls or causes the initial offer, sale, or 
                        distribution of that ancillary asset.
                    ``(B) Joint and several liability.--For the 
                purposes of this paragraph, if the person that 
                initially offered, sold, or distributed an ancillary 
                asset (or otherwise sold, distributed, controlled, or 
                caused the initial offer, sale, or distribution of the 
                ancillary asset) did not receive the largest amount of 
                those ancillary assets distributed in the 12-month 
                period following the commencement of that offer, sale, 
                or distribution, then that person, solely for purposes 
                of subsection (c), shall be jointly and severally 
                considered to be an ancillary asset originator with 
                respect to that ancillary asset (with the person that 
                controlled such offer, sale, or distribution) along 
                with the person (including a person under direct or 
                indirect control of that person) that received the 
                largest amount of those ancillary assets in that 
                period, other than ancillary assets received--
                            ``(i) in an intermediary capacity;
                            ``(ii) solely through a gratuitous 
                        distribution;
                            ``(iii) through an offer, sale, or 
                        distribution of a security to the public 
                        registered under section 5; or
                            ``(iv) otherwise in a broad and public 
                        manner that the Commission determines, pursuant 
                        to regulation, should not subject the person to 
                        disclosure requirements under subsection (d).
                    ``(C) Rulemaking.--Not later than 360 days after 
                the date of enactment of this section, the Commission 
                shall, after providing notice and the opportunity for 
                comment, issue rules regarding the circumstances under 
                which persons that are jointly and severally considered 
                an ancillary asset originator pursuant to subparagraph 
                (B) are responsible for furnishing the disclosures 
                required under subsection (d) on behalf of the 
                ancillary asset originator.
            ``(3) Certification covered party.--The term `certification 
        covered party' means--
                    ``(A) an ancillary asset originator;
                    ``(B) a subsidiary of the ancillary asset 
                originator;
                    ``(C) a related person of the ancillary asset 
                originator; or
                    ``(D) any entity that directly or indirectly 
                controls or is controlled by a common entity with the 
                ancillary asset originator.
            ``(4) Decentralized governance system; digital asset; 
        digital asset intermediary; related person; securities laws.--
        The terms `decentralized governance system', `digital asset', 
        `digital asset intermediary', `related person', and `securities 
        laws' have the meanings given those terms in section 2 of the 
        Digital Asset Market Clarity Act.
            ``(5) Gratuitous distribution.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `gratuitous 
                distribution'--
                            ``(i) means a distribution of a network 
                        token, including a distribution effected by an 
                        agent or other service provider engaged solely 
                        in an administrative or ministerial capacity, 
                        in exchange for not more than a nominal value 
                        of cash, property, services, or other assets in 
                        a broad, equitable, and non-discretionary 
                        manner; and
                            ``(ii) includes, without limitation, the 
                        mechanisms and methods of distribution 
                        described in subparagraph (B).
                    ``(B) Mechanisms and methods of distribution.--The 
                mechanisms and methods of distribution described in 
                this subparagraph are the following:
                            ``(i) Self staking.--The distribution of a 
                        unit of a network token, as a programmatic 
                        result of validating or staking activity for a 
                        distributed ledger system's consensus 
                        mechanism, including the staking of a network 
                        token, and the operation of a node, validator, 
                        or substantially similar software for such 
                        activity where the owner of the staked network 
                        token and the operator of the node, validator, 
                        or substantially similar software are the same 
                        person or entity.
                            ``(ii) Self-custodial staking with a third 
                        party.--The distribution of a unit of a network 
                        token, as a programmatic result of validating 
                        or staking activity for a distributed ledger 
                        system's consensus mechanism, including the 
                        staking of a network token, and the operation 
                        of a node, validator, or substantially similar 
                        software for such activity in which--
                                    ``(I) the owner of the staked 
                                network token, and operator of the 
                                node, validator, or substantially 
                                similar software for such activity are 
                                different persons or entities; and
                                    ``(II) the operator of the node, 
                                validator, or substantially similar 
                                software does not maintain custody or 
                                control of the staked network token.
                            ``(iii) Liquid staking.--The distribution 
                        of network tokens, as the issuance, transfer, 
                        or redemption of liquid staking tokens 
                        representing a pro rata interest in staked 
                        network tokens, and their associated rewards, 
                        provided that such tokens are issued as 
                        administrative or ministerial receipts and are 
                        not providing discretionary management 
                        authority.
                            ``(iv) Custodial and ancillary staking 
                        services.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--Subject to the 
                                rules issued pursuant to subclause 
                                (II), the provision of custodial or 
                                ancillary staking services enabling the 
                                owner of a network token to participate 
                                in validating or staking activity for a 
                                distributed ledger system's consensus 
                                mechanism that results in the 
                                programmatic distribution of a unit of 
                                a network token, provided that such 
                                custodial or ancillary services are 
                                exclusively administrative or 
                                ministerial in nature.
                                    ``(II) Rulemaking to define the 
                                custodial and ancillary staking 
                                services.--The Commission shall issue 
                                rules defining the custodial and 
                                ancillary staking services described in 
                                subclause (I) that are exclusively 
                                administrative or ministerial in 
                                nature, consistent with what is 
                                necessary or appropriate for the public 
                                interest or for the protection of 
                                investors.
                            ``(v) Programmatic and automated 
                        distributions.--The automated, programmatic, 
                        protocol-defined, or rules-based distribution 
                        of network tokens achieved through the 
                        transparent functioning of a distributed ledger 
                        system, a distributed ledger, or distributed 
                        ledger applications, in which--
                                    ``(I) distributions occur pursuant 
                                to public, transparent, rules-based 
                                parameters that are publicly available 
                                and are accessible on a permissionless 
                                basis, without individualized or real-
                                time negotiation with recipients;
                                    ``(II) recipients receive network 
                                tokens as a direct, programmatic result 
                                of objective, verifiable network 
                                participation, consumption, or 
                                contribution, including consensus 
                                participation, data availability, 
                                bandwidth, governance, or use and 
                                interaction with the protocol or 
                                application;
                                    ``(III) the number of network 
                                tokens received is proportionate to the 
                                verifiable service, usage, or 
                                contribution;
                                    ``(IV) any expected utility or 
                                value of the network tokens arises 
                                primarily from decentralized network 
                                participation and market forces, rather 
                                than the discretionary actions of any 
                                single person or affiliated group; and
                                    ``(V) no person or group has 
                                unilateral authority to alter, 
                                restrict, or direct the issuance 
                                parameters or distribution mechanisms 
                                of the distributed ledger system, and 
                                any modification occurs only through a 
                                decentralized governance system.
                            ``(vi) Technology-neutral clause.--The 
                        distribution employing a mechanism, protocol, 
                        or technology not specifically described in 
                        clauses (i) through (v), without regard to 
                        whether such mechanism, protocol, or technology 
                        is in existence at the time of enactment of 
                        this section, and without regard to terminology 
                        or underlying technical framework, provided 
                        such distribution meets the requirements 
                        described in subparagraph (A)(i).
            ``(6) Investment company.--The term `investment company' 
        has the meaning given the term in section 3(a) of the 
        Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(a)).
            ``(7) Network token.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `network token' means a 
                digital commodity that is intrinsically linked to a 
                distributed ledger system and that derives, or is 
                reasonably expected to derive, its value from the use 
                of such distributed ledger system, and, pursuant to the 
                Digital Asset Market Clarity Act and the amendments 
                made by the Digital Asset Market Clarity Act, is 
                treated as a non-security solely for purposes of the 
                securities laws.
                    ``(B) Disqualifying financial rights.--The term 
                `network token' does not include any of the following:
                            ``(i) Any security, consistent with the 
                        categories of disqualifying financial rights 
                        described in clause (ii).
                            ``(ii) An investment contract or a 
                        certificate of interest or participation in any 
                        profit-sharing agreement that represents, gives 
                        the holder, or is substantially economically or 
                        functionally equivalent to, any of the 
                        following, as the Commission shall establish by 
                        rule:
                                    ``(I) A debt or equity interest, or 
                                an option on a debt or equity interest, 
                                in a person.
                                    ``(II) Liquidation rights with 
                                respect to a person.
                                    ``(III) An entitlement to, or a 
                                reasonable expectation of, an interest, 
                                dividend, or other payment, or direct 
                                or indirect transfer of value, from a 
                                person (other than a decentralized 
                                governance system).
                                    ``(IV) An express or implied 
                                financial interest in (including a 
                                limited partnership interest or 
                                interest in intellectual property of), 
                                or provided by, a person (other than a 
                                decentralized governance system).
                            ``(iii) Any interest that is, represents, 
                        or is functionally equivalent to an interest in 
                        an investment company or a company (as defined 
                        in section 2 of the Investment Company Act of 
                        1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2)) that would be an 
                        investment company under section 3(a) of that 
                        Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(a)) but for the exclusions 
                        provided from that definition by section 3(c) 
                        of that Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)).
                            ``(iv) Any interest that is, represents, or 
                        is functionally equivalent to an interest in 
                        any entity or person that is not an investment 
                        company but holds or will hold assets other 
                        than securities.
                    ``(C) Rule of construction.--A digital commodity--
                            ``(i) shall be deemed to be intrinsically 
                        linked to a distributed ledger system if the 
                        digital commodity is directly related to the 
                        functionality or operation of the distributed 
                        ledger system or to the activities or services 
                        for which the distributed ledger system is 
                        created or utilized; and
                            ``(ii) shall not be disqualified from being 
                        deemed a network token due to the granting of 
                        economic interests or voting capabilities with 
                        respect to a distributed ledger system or its 
                        decentralized governance system, as further 
                        clarified by the Commission through the final 
                        rules adopted under section 105 of the Lummis-
                        Gillibrand Responsible Financial Innovation Act 
                        of 2026.
    ``(b) Treatment of Network Tokens and Transactions.--
            ``(1) In general.--The offer, sale, or distribution of an 
        ancillary asset by, or caused by, an ancillary asset 
        originator, including through an underwriter, shall be 
        considered to be an offer, sale, or distribution of an 
        investment contract involving an ancillary asset, except with 
        respect to a gratuitous distribution.
            ``(2) Treatment as non-security.--Except as provided in 
        this section, and subject to paragraph (3), a network token 
        shall be treated as a non-security, to the extent materially 
        consistent with the requirements and conditions of this 
        section, for purposes of --
                    ``(A) section 2(a)(1);
                    ``(B) section 3(a) of the Securities Exchange Act 
                of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a));
                    ``(C) section 2(a) of the Investment Company Act of 
                1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a));
                    ``(D) section 202(a) of the Investment Advisers Act 
                of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a));
                    ``(E) section 16 of the Securities Investor 
                Protection Act of 1970 (15 U.S.C. 78lll); or
                    ``(F) any applicable requirement of State law that 
                is functionally equivalent to the provisions described 
                in subparagraphs (A) through (E), including any 
                provision of State law that directly or indirectly 
                prohibits, limits, or imposes any conditions on the 
                use, offer, sale, transfer, or disposition of a network 
                token in a manner that is--
                            ``(i) not substantially similar to 
                        prohibitions, limitations, or conditions 
                        imposed by that State relating to assets that 
                        are commodities under the laws of that State; 
                        and
                            ``(ii) inconsistent with this section.
            ``(3) Secondary market treatment.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in this 
                section (including the limitation under subparagraph 
                (B)), and to the extent materially consistent with the 
                requirements and conditions of this section, the offer, 
                sale, or distribution of a network token by a person 
                shall be treated as not involving the offer, sale, or 
                distribution of a security under--
                            ``(i) section 2(a)(1);
                            ``(ii) the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
                        (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.);
                            ``(iii) the Investment Company Act of 1940 
                        (15 U.S.C. 80a-1 et seq.);
                            ``(iv) the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 
                        (15 U.S.C. 80b-1 et seq.);
                            ``(v) the Securities Investor Protection 
                        Act of 1970 (15 U.S.C. 78aaa et seq.); and
                            ``(vi) any applicable requirement of State 
                        law that is functionally equivalent to the 
                        provisions described in clauses (i) through 
                        (v), including any provision of State law that 
                        directly or indirectly prohibits, limits, or 
                        imposes any conditions on the use, offer, sale, 
                        transfer, or disposition of a network token in 
                        a manner that is--
                                    ``(I) not substantially similar to 
                                prohibitions, limitations, or 
                                conditions imposed by that State 
                                relating to assets that are commodities 
                                under the laws of that State; and
                                    ``(II) inconsistent with this 
                                section.
                    ``(B) Limitation.--Subparagraph (A) shall not apply 
                if the applicable network token is offered, sold, or 
                distributed pursuant to the offer, sale, or 
                distribution of a security by an ancillary asset 
                originator or underwriter.
            ``(4) Treatment of gratuitous distributions.--
                    ``(A) In general.--A gratuitous distribution, by 
                itself, shall be presumed to not constitute an offer, 
                sale, or distribution of a security for the purposes 
                of--
                            ``(i) section 2(a)(1);
                            ``(ii) section 3(a) of the Securities 
                        Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a));
                            ``(iii) section 2(a) of the Investment 
                        Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a));
                            ``(iv) section 202(a) of the Investment 
                        Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a));
                            ``(v) section 16 of the Securities Investor 
                        Protection Act of 1970 (15 U.S.C. 78lll); or
                            ``(vi) any applicable requirement of State 
                        law, or any provision of State law that is 
                        functionally equivalent to the provisions 
                        described in clauses (i) through (v), including 
                        any provision of State law that directly or 
                        indirectly prohibits, limits, or imposes any 
                        conditions on the use, offer, sale, transfer, 
                        or disposition of a network token in a manner 
                        that is--
                                    ``(I) not substantially similar to 
                                prohibitions, limitations, or 
                                conditions imposed by that State 
                                relating to assets that are commodities 
                                under the laws of that State; and
                                    ``(II) inconsistent with this 
                                section.
                    ``(B) Savings clause.--Nothing in this paragraph 
                may be construed to limit, impair, or otherwise affect 
                the anti-fraud or anti-manipulation authorities of the 
                Commission, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 
                or a State regulator.
            ``(5) Prior certification.--
                    ``(A) Submission and default treatment.--
                            ``(i) In general.--
                                    ``(I) Presumption.--For purposes of 
                                this section, there shall be a 
                                rebuttable presumption that a network 
                                token, including a network token 
                                distributed in the manner described in 
                                paragraph (4), is an ancillary asset 
                                unless the originator of that network 
                                token, or a digital asset intermediary 
                                (as provided under subsection (c)(4)), 
                                submits to the Commission a completed 
                                written certification, supported by 
                                reasonable evidence, as defined by the 
                                Commission, sufficient to demonstrate 
                                that the network token is not an 
                                ancillary asset.
                                    ``(II) Contents.--A certification 
                                submitted under subclause (I) shall 
                                include a statement in accordance with 
                                subsection (d)(3)(B)(i).
                            ``(ii) Notification.--The Commission shall 
                        notify the Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
                        of each certification made pursuant to clause 
                        (i) and of any final agency action with respect 
                        to that certification.
                            ``(iii) Reciprocal notice.--The Commission 
                        shall receive a copy of any certification and 
                        supporting materials submitted to the Commodity 
                        Futures Trading Commission under section 203(d) 
                        of the Digital Commodity Intermediaries Act.
                    ``(B) Automatic effectiveness.--A certification 
                submitted under subparagraph (A) by an originator or a 
                digital asset intermediary shall become effective upon 
                the earlier of--
                            ``(i) the date on which the Commission 
                        notifies the originator or digital asset 
                        intermediary in writing that the Commission 
                        does not object to the certification; or
                            ``(ii) if the Commission has not issued a 
                        rebuttal to the originator or digital asset 
                        intermediary in accordance with subparagraph 
                        (C), 60 days after the date on which the 
                        originator or digital asset intermediary 
                        submits the certification.
                    ``(C) Commission denial.--
                            ``(i) Authority to deny.--Subject to 
                        clauses (ii) and (iii), the Commission may deny 
                        a certification submitted under subparagraph 
                        (A) by an originator or digital asset 
                        intermediary only during the 60-day period 
                        described in subparagraph (B)(ii) or upon 
                        determining, based on reasonable evidence, that 
                        a material change in circumstances has occurred 
                        after the submission of the certification, 
                        whether or not the certification has taken 
                        effect.
                            ``(ii) Notice of intent to deny.--If the 
                        Commission intends to deny a certification 
                        submitted under subparagraph (A), the 
                        Commission shall--
                                    ``(I) either not later than 20 
                                business days after the date on which 
                                the certification is submitted, or 
                                promptly after determining that a 
                                material change in circumstances has 
                                occurred, provide to the applicable 
                                originator or digital asset 
                                intermediary notice of the intent of 
                                the Commission to deny that 
                                certification; and
                                    ``(II) provide to the applicable 
                                originator or digital asset 
                                intermediary a 10-day period following 
                                the provision of notice under subclause 
                                (I) during which--
                                            ``(aa) interested persons 
                                        shall have an opportunity to 
                                        submit written data, views, and 
                                        arguments relating to that 
                                        certification; and
                                            ``(bb) the Commodity 
                                        Futures Trading Commission may, 
                                        at the discretion of the 
                                        Commodity Futures Trading 
                                        Commission, submit input 
                                        regarding whether the 
                                        applicable asset--

                                                    ``(AA) satisfies 
                                                the requirements for 
                                                being considered an 
                                                ancillary asset; or

                                                    ``(BB) includes any 
                                                disqualifying financial 
                                                right described in 
                                                subsection (a)(7)(B).

                            ``(iii) Requirements after notice of 
                        intent.--After the 10-day period described in 
                        clause (ii)(II), the Commission shall--
                                    ``(I) upon request of the 
                                applicable originator or digital asset 
                                intermediary, provide an opportunity 
                                for the oral presentation of data, 
                                views, and arguments by certification 
                                covered parties;
                                    ``(II) have a vote of the 
                                Commission (which, notwithstanding 
                                section 4A of the Securities Exchange 
                                Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78d-1), may not 
                                be delegated to an employee or employee 
                                board or to any individual 
                                Commissioner) to deny the certification 
                                after a finding that the applicable 
                                asset--
                                            ``(aa) is an ancillary 
                                        asset; or
                                            ``(bb) includes any 
                                        disqualifying financial right 
                                        described in subsection 
                                        (a)(7)(B); and
                                    ``(III) notify the Commodity 
                                Futures Trading Commission of each 
                                denial made under subclause (II).
                            ``(iv) Interested person.--For purposes of 
                        this subparagraph, the term `interested person' 
                        means, with respect to a network token--
                                    ``(I) the ancillary asset 
                                originator with respect to that network 
                                token (referred to in this clause as 
                                `the originator');
                                    ``(II) a subsidiary of the 
                                originator;
                                    ``(III) a related person of the 
                                originator;
                                    ``(IV) any entity that directly or 
                                indirectly controls or is controlled by 
                                a common entity with the originator;
                                    ``(V) any broker or dealer (as 
                                those terms are defined in section 3(a) 
                                of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
                                (15 U.S.C. 78c(a))), or an exchange 
                                registered pursuant to section 6 of 
                                that Act (15 U.S.C. 78f), that operates 
                                in connection with digital assets; or
                                    ``(VI) any person registered with 
                                the Commodity Futures Trading 
                                Commission that operates or proposes to 
                                operate in connection with digital 
                                assets.
                    ``(D) Certification filed by digital asset 
                intermediary.--
                            ``(i) In general.--A certification 
                        submitted by a digital asset intermediary under 
                        this paragraph shall only become effective if--
                                    ``(I) the digital asset 
                                intermediary has--
                                            ``(aa) conducted a 
                                        reasonable inquiry of publicly 
                                        available information, 
                                        appropriate under the 
                                        circumstances, regarding 
                                        whether the applicable 
                                        originator has engaged in 
                                        entrepreneurial and managerial 
                                        efforts with respect to the 
                                        applicable network token during 
                                        the most recent 180-day period, 
                                        or is likely to engage in those 
                                        efforts in the future; and
                                            ``(bb) concluded that the 
                                        efforts described in item (aa) 
                                        have not occurred or are not 
                                        reasonably likely to occur; and
                                    ``(II) subject to clause (ii), the 
                                applicable originator has certified 
                                that there is not (and, during the most 
                                recent 180-day period, there has not 
                                been) material, non-public information 
                                regarding entrepreneurial or managerial 
                                efforts with respect to the applicable 
                                network token in the possession of the 
                                originator or a related party.
                            ``(ii) Limitation.--Clause (i)(II) shall 
                        not be required if the applicable digital asset 
                        intermediary, after a reasonable inquiry, 
                        appropriate under the circumstances, determines 
                        that the applicable originator, or any person 
                        jointly and severally liable pursuant to 
                        subsection (a)(2)(B), is not capable of 
                        submitting the applicable certification.
                    ``(E) Final agency action.--Denial under this 
                paragraph constitutes final agency action reviewable 
                under applicable law.
                    ``(F) Tolling.--Any applicable period specified in 
                this paragraph may be tolled, for periods of not longer 
                than 60 days, during the 3-year period following the 
                effective date of the Digital Asset Market Clarity Act, 
                upon a showing in writing that the originator or 
                digital asset intermediary has not substantially 
                responded to a request for information from the 
                Commission within a reasonable time.
                    ``(G) Withdrawal.--An originator or digital asset 
                intermediary may withdraw a certification submitted 
                under subparagraph (A) at any time before approval.
                    ``(H) Designated commission office.--The Commission 
                shall designate an office that shall--
                            ``(i) acknowledge receipt of certifications 
                        submitted under subparagraph (A);
                            ``(ii) support those seeking certification 
                        under subparagraph (A) by providing guidance 
                        regarding the mechanics of preparing and 
                        submitting those certifications; and
                            ``(iii) route certifications submitted 
                        under subparagraph (A), together with any 
                        associated comments or recommendations, to the 
                        appropriate division or office of the 
                        Commission for review.
                    ``(I) Misstatements or omissions.--Any material 
                misstatement or omission to state a material fact, 
                including with respect to continuing compliance, in a 
                certification that has become effective under this 
                paragraph shall constitute grounds for the Commission, 
                consistent with the securities laws, to issue an order 
                denying, suspending, or revoking the effectiveness of 
                the certification and to pursue any appropriate 
                enforcement action.
    ``(c) Disclosure Requirements for Certain Transactions Involving 
Ancillary Assets.--
            ``(1) Specified initial and periodic disclosure 
        requirements.--
                    ``(A) In general.--An ancillary asset originator 
                shall be subject to the initial and periodic disclosure 
                requirements under subsection (d) upon the occurrence 
                of the earlier of the following:
                            ``(i) Any offer, sale, or distribution of 
                        an ancillary asset after the effective date of 
                        the Digital Asset Market Clarity Act by, or 
                        that is caused by, that ancillary asset 
                        originator pursuant to--
                                    ``(I) Regulation Crypto, as adopted 
                                pursuant to section 103 of the Lummis-
                                Gillibrand Responsible Financial 
                                Innovation Act of 2026;
                                    ``(II) the filing of an effective 
                                registration statement under this Act;
                                    ``(III) the filing of an offering 
                                statement described in section 3(b)(2); 
                                or
                                    ``(IV) an offering conducted 
                                pursuant to section 4(a)(6).
                            ``(ii)(I) The first secondary market offer, 
                        sale, or distribution of an ancillary asset in 
                        the United States after the effective date of 
                        the Digital Asset Market Clarity Act that 
                        constitutes a public offering, whether by the 
                        ancillary asset originator or any other person.
                            ``(II) For the purposes of subclause (I), 
                        the term `public offering' shall be interpreted 
                        consistent with the meaning of that term under 
                        section 4(a)(2).
                    ``(B) Exclusion.--Subparagraph (A) shall not apply 
                if--
                            ``(i) the aggregate gross proceeds from the 
                        offer, sale, or distribution of the applicable 
                        ancillary asset (together with any related 
                        assets sold in those offers, sales, or 
                        distributions) were $5,000,000 or less 
                        (adjusted for inflation) during the 12-month 
                        period immediately following the date of the 
                        first such offer, sale, or distribution; or
                            ``(ii) the average daily aggregate value of 
                        trading in the applicable ancillary asset in 
                        all spot markets open to the public in the 
                        United States for which trading volume is 
                        generally available is $5,000,000 or less 
                        (adjusted for inflation) during the 12-month 
                        period (or such shorter period as the 
                        Commission may determine) immediately following 
                        the commencement of compliance with the 
                        disclosure requirements under subsection (d) 
                        (as determined pursuant to paragraph (2) of 
                        this subsection), based on the knowledge of the 
                        ancillary asset originator after due inquiry 
                        (or, if the ancillary asset has not yet traded 
                        on spot markets open to the public in the 
                        United States, the trading volume is reasonably 
                        expected to be $5,000,000 or less (adjusted for 
                        inflation) during the 12-month period 
                        immediately following the reporting date 
                        specified by paragraph (2)).
                    ``(C) Calculation.--For the purposes of this 
                paragraph, the calculation of daily aggregate value 
                shall be based on a reasonable calculation of public 
                data.
            ``(2) Commencement of compliance with specified initial and 
        periodic disclosure requirements.--
                    ``(A) In general.--An ancillary asset originator 
                subject to the requirements of paragraph (1) shall 
                comply with the disclosure requirements under 
                subsection (d)--
                            ``(i) before--
                                    ``(I) any initial offer, sale, or 
                                distribution described in paragraph 
                                (1)(A)(i); or
                                    ``(II) a secondary market offer, 
                                sale, or distribution described in 
                                paragraph (1)(A)(ii); and
                            ``(ii) semiannually thereafter.
                    ``(B) Exclusion.--The requirements of this 
                paragraph shall not apply to an offer, sale, or 
                distribution of an ancillary asset that occurs after 
                the effective date of the Digital Asset Market Clarity 
                Act if an ancillary asset originator has submitted a 
                certification under subsection (d)(3)(B) and the 
                Commission has not denied that certification within a 
                60-day period after the completion of the process under 
                that subsection.
            ``(3) Transition rule.--
                    ``(A) In general.--An ancillary asset originator 
                that initially offered, sold, or distributed (or 
                otherwise controlled or caused the offer, sale, or 
                distribution of) a security involving an ancillary 
                asset before the effective date of the Digital Asset 
                Market Clarity Act shall comply with the periodic 
                disclosure requirements under subsection (d), if 
                applicable, beginning on the date that is 1 year after 
                that effective date.
                    ``(B) Effect on certification.--An ancillary asset 
                originator, or any other certification covered party, 
                subject to this paragraph that meets the requirements 
                of subsection (d)(3) may furnish a certification as 
                provided in that subsection without complying with the 
                periodic disclosure requirements under subsection (d), 
                if the Commission has not denied that certification 
                within a 60-day period after the completion of the 
                process under that subsection.
                    ``(C) Period of disclosures.--The disclosures 
                required under subparagraph (A) shall apply with 
                respect to the 3-year period preceding the effective 
                date described in that subparagraph.
            ``(4) Digital asset intermediaries.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Other than as provided under 
                subparagraph (B), with respect to an ancillary asset 
                that is listed for trading on a digital asset 
                intermediary, that digital asset intermediary may, in 
                lieu of the applicable ancillary asset originator, 
                satisfy the requirements of subsection (d) in 
                accordance with such rules as the Commission shall 
                jointly adopt with the Commodity Futures Trading 
                Commission.
                    ``(B) Allocation of disclosure responsibility.--
                            ``(i) Originator filings.--A digital asset 
                        intermediary may not satisfy the requirements 
                        of subsection (d) in lieu of the applicable 
                        ancillary asset originator, if--
                                    ``(I) the ancillary asset 
                                originator is incorporated, organized, 
                                or otherwise registered under the laws 
                                of the United States or of any State; 
                                and
                                    ``(II) the applicable ancillary 
                                asset is--
                                            ``(aa) offered, sold, or 
                                        distributed after the effective 
                                        date of the Digital Asset 
                                        Market Clarity Act pursuant 
                                        to--

                                                    ``(AA) an 
                                                investment contract 
                                                that is offered, sold, 
                                                or distributed pursuant 
                                                to Regulation Crypto, 
                                                as adopted pursuant to 
                                                section 103 of the 
                                                Lummis-Gillibrand 
                                                Responsible Financial 
                                                Innovation Act of 2026;

                                                    ``(BB) the filing 
                                                of an effective 
                                                registration statement 
                                                under this Act (other 
                                                than a registration 
                                                statement on the form 
                                                described in section 
                                                239.31 or 239.33 of 
                                                title 17, Code of 
                                                Federal Regulations, or 
                                                the successor to either 
                                                such form);

                                                    ``(CC) the filing 
                                                of an offering 
                                                statement described in 
                                                section 3(b)(2); or

                                                    ``(DD) an offering 
                                                conducted pursuant to 
                                                section 4(a)(6); or

                                            ``(bb) first offered or 
                                        sold after the effective date 
                                        of the Digital Asset Market 
                                        Clarity Act in a transaction 
                                        described in paragraph 
                                        (1)(A)(ii).
                            ``(ii) Commission determination.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--If, after 
                                notice, comment, and the opportunity 
                                for a hearing, the Commission 
                                determines that it is in the public 
                                interest or necessary for the 
                                protection of investors, including with 
                                respect to an ancillary asset 
                                originator incorporated or organized in 
                                a foreign jurisdiction, the Commission 
                                may require an ancillary asset 
                                originator, after a transition period, 
                                to file the disclosures required under 
                                subsection (d).
                                    ``(II) Extraterritorial effect.--
                                Subclause (I) shall apply 
                                extraterritorially.
                    ``(C) Standard of liability.--Notwithstanding any 
                other provision of this Act, it shall be unlawful for a 
                digital asset intermediary to file disclosures under 
                subsection (d) pursuant to this paragraph that contain 
                any material misstatement or omission to state a 
                material fact required to be stated therein, or 
                necessary to make the statements therein not 
                misleading, unless that digital asset intermediary did 
                not know (and, in the exercise of reasonable care, 
                could not have known) of that misstatement or omission.
            ``(5) Failure to comply.--Subject to the requirements of 
        this section, an ancillary asset shall not be listed for 
        trading on a digital asset intermediary if the Commission and 
        the Commodity Futures Trading Commission jointly find that the 
        ancillary asset originator that initially offered, sold, or 
        distributed the ancillary asset after the effective date of the 
        Digital Asset Market Clarity Act (or, if a digital asset 
        intermediary is satisfying the requirements of this subsection 
        in lieu of that ancillary asset originator in accordance with 
        paragraph (4), such digital asset intermediary) has materially 
        failed to furnish the required disclosures under this 
        subsection after a reasonable opportunity to cure, as provided 
        by joint rule of the Commission and the Commodity Futures 
        Trading Commission in a manner that is consistent with the 
        considerations under subsection (d)(5).
    ``(d) Specified Initial and Periodic Disclosure Requirements.--
            ``(1) In general.--
                    ``(A) Furnishing of information.--An ancillary 
                asset originator that is subject to the requirements of 
                paragraph (1) or (3) of subsection (c), or a digital 
                asset intermediary acting in accordance with subsection 
                (c)(4), shall furnish to the Commission, in such form 
                as the Commission may prescribe by rule after providing 
                notice and the opportunity for comment, and until the 
                requirement terminates under paragraph (3) of this 
                subsection, the information described in paragraph (2) 
                of this subsection, to the extent that the information 
                is material and known, or reasonably knowable, to the 
                ancillary asset originator or digital asset 
                intermediary.
                    ``(B) Requirements for rules.--A rule prescribed 
                under subparagraph (A) shall be reasonably tailored, 
                including by adjusting the scope, form, and content of 
                required disclosures, based on--
                            ``(i) the size of the applicable ancillary 
                        asset originator in accordance with section 
                        108(a) of the Lummis-Gillibrand Responsible 
                        Financial Innovation Act of 2026;
                            ``(ii) the aggregate amount of ancillary 
                        assets offered, sold, or distributed by the 
                        applicable ancillary asset originator to the 
                        public in the United States; and
                            ``(iii) whether the applicable ancillary 
                        asset and any related distributed ledger system 
                        is subject to coordinated control, as defined 
                        by the Commission pursuant to rules adopted 
                        under section 104(b) of the Lummis-Gillibrand 
                        Responsible Financial Innovation Act of 2026.
            ``(2) Categories of information.--The information required 
        under paragraph (1) shall include the following with respect to 
        the applicable ancillary asset originator and the related 
        ancillary asset:
                    ``(A) Basic corporate information regarding the 
                ancillary asset originator and the ancillary asset 
                activities of the ancillary asset originator, which may 
                include the following items, as the Commission shall 
                determine by rule:
                            ``(i) The experience of the ancillary asset 
                        originator (or persons controlling the 
                        ancillary asset originator) in developing 
                        ancillary assets.
                            ``(ii) If the ancillary asset originator 
                        (or persons controlling the ancillary asset 
                        originator) has previously distributed 
                        ancillary assets, information on the subsequent 
                        distribution history of those ancillary assets, 
                        including price history, if the information is 
                        publicly available.
                            ``(iii) The activities that the ancillary 
                        asset originator has taken in the relevant 
                        disclosure period, and is projecting to take in 
                        the 1-year period following the submission of 
                        the disclosure, with respect to promoting the 
                        use, value, or resale of the ancillary asset 
                        (including any activity to facilitate the 
                        creation or maintenance of a trading market for 
                        the ancillary asset and any distributed ledger 
                        system, application, or system that uses the 
                        ancillary asset).
                            ``(iv) The anticipated cost of the 
                        activities of the ancillary asset originator 
                        described in clause (iii), whether the 
                        ancillary asset originator has unencumbered, 
                        liquid funds equal to that amount, and, if the 
                        ancillary asset originator does not have those 
                        funds, the anticipated plan of operations of 
                        the ancillary asset originator for the portion 
                        of time where those liquid funds are less than 
                        the anticipated cost of the activities of the 
                        ancillary asset originator.
                            ``(v) The experience of the ancillary asset 
                        originator with the use of a distributed ledger 
                        system or distributed ledger technology.
                            ``(vi) The identities and expertise of the 
                        board of directors (or equivalent body) and 
                        senior management of the ancillary asset 
                        originator, the experience or functions of whom 
                        are material to the development or value of the 
                        ancillary asset, as well as any personnel 
                        changes relating to the ancillary asset 
                        originator during the period covered by the 
                        disclosure.
                            ``(vii) Financial statements of the 
                        ancillary asset originator that are--
                                    ``(I) if the aggregate amount of 
                                such ancillary assets offered, sold, or 
                                distributed to the public does not 
                                exceed $25,000,000 in gross proceeds, 
                                reviewed by a public accountant that is 
                                independent of the ancillary asset 
                                originator; or
                                    ``(II) if the aggregate amount of 
                                such ancillary assets offered, sold, or 
                                distributed to the public exceeds 
                                $25,000,000 in gross proceeds, audited 
                                by a public accountant that is 
                                independent of the ancillary asset 
                                originator.
                            ``(viii) A description of any legal 
                        proceedings in which the ancillary asset 
                        originator is engaged.
                            ``(ix) Risk factors arising from the 
                        activities of the ancillary asset originator 
                        with respect to the ancillary asset, and not 
                        generally applicable to other kinds of 
                        ancillary assets, that may limit the utility or 
                        liquidity of the ancillary asset, investor 
                        demand with respect to the ancillary asset, or 
                        the market price or value of the ancillary 
                        asset.
                            ``(x) Information relating to ownership of 
                        the ancillary asset by--
                                    ``(I) persons owning not less than 
                                10 percent of any class of equity 
                                security or other ownership interest of 
                                the ancillary asset originator; and
                                    ``(II) the board of directors (or 
                                equivalent body) and senior management 
                                of the ancillary asset originator, if 
                                those individuals, in the aggregate, 
                                own not less than 5 percent of the 
                                ancillary asset.
                            ``(xi) For any material transactions 
                        involving the ancillary asset between the 
                        ancillary asset originator and any related 
                        person, a description, in the aggregate, of the 
                        parties, the number of ancillary assets 
                        involved, and a summary of any material 
                        features of the transactions, including any 
                        material terms or ongoing obligations.
                            ``(xii) A summary, in the aggregate by 
                        year, of transactions in ancillary assets 
                        during the 4-year period preceding the 
                        furnishing of the disclosure, by the ancillary 
                        asset originator and persons that directly or 
                        indirectly control the ancillary asset 
                        originator.
                            ``(xiii) Purchases or similar acquisitions 
                        of ancillary assets by the ancillary asset 
                        originator and affiliates of the ancillary 
                        asset originator.
                            ``(xiv) A statement, made in good faith, 
                        from the chief financial officer of the 
                        ancillary asset originator or equivalent 
                        official, stating whether the ancillary asset 
                        originator reasonably expects to maintain or 
                        have the financial resources to continue 
                        business as a going concern for the 12-month 
                        period following the furnishing of the 
                        disclosure, absent a change in circumstances.
                            ``(xv) The current state and timeline for 
                        the development of the distributed ledger 
                        system to which the ancillary asset relates, 
                        detailing if, how, and when the distributed 
                        ledger system and the related ancillary asset 
                        are intended to no longer be subject to 
                        coordinated control, including by related 
                        persons, if the distributed ledger system has 
                        not yet received a certification under section 
                        104(d) of the Lummis-Gillibrand Responsible 
                        Financial Innovation Act of 2026.
                    ``(B) Economic and technical information relating 
                to the ancillary asset, which may include the following 
                items, as the Commission shall determine by rule:
                            ``(i) A general description of the 
                        ancillary asset and the distributed ledger 
                        system to which that ancillary asset relates, 
                        including--
                                    ``(I) a plain-English description 
                                of how the applicable distributed 
                                ledger, distributed ledger system, or 
                                distributed ledger application 
                                functions;
                                    ``(II) the intended or known 
                                functionality and uses of the ancillary 
                                asset and any associated fees for use 
                                or disposition of the ancillary asset;
                                    ``(III) the market for the 
                                ancillary asset;
                                    ``(IV) other assets or services 
                                that may compete with the ancillary 
                                asset;
                                    ``(V) the total supply of the 
                                ancillary asset or the manner and rate 
                                of the ongoing production or creation 
                                of the ancillary asset; and
                                    ``(VI) the governance and consensus 
                                mechanism for the ancillary asset and 
                                that distributed ledger system, if 
                                applicable, including for validating 
                                transactions and implementing changes 
                                to the distributed ledger system, the 
                                method of generating or mining 
                                ancillary assets, and any process for 
                                burning or destroying units of the 
                                ancillary asset on a distributed ledger 
                                system.
                            ``(ii) If the ancillary asset originator 
                        has offered, sold, or otherwise provided 
                        ancillary assets to affiliates, investors, 
                        employees, intermediaries, or resellers, a 
                        description of the amount of assets offered, 
                        sold, or otherwise provided to such persons and 
                        a summary of any material resale restrictions 
                        or other material obligations arising from 
                        related contracts, agreements, or other 
                        arrangements.
                            ``(iii) If ancillary assets were 
                        distributed by the ancillary asset originator 
                        without charge or upon meeting certain 
                        conditions, a description of the distributions, 
                        in the aggregate, along with the identity of 
                        any recipient that received more than 5 percent 
                        of the total amount of ancillary assets 
                        (calculated as a percentage of the total supply 
                        of such asset at the time of distribution).
                            ``(iv) The amount of ancillary assets owned 
                        by the ancillary asset originator.
                            ``(v) For the 12-month period following the 
                        furnishing of the disclosure, a description of 
                        the current state and anticipated timeline for 
                        the development of the distributed ledger 
                        system to which that ancillary asset relates, 
                        including--
                                    ``(I) plans of the ancillary asset 
                                originator to support (or to cease 
                                supporting) the use or development of 
                                the ancillary asset, including markets 
                                for the ancillary asset and that 
                                distributed ledger system;
                                    ``(II) the various roles that exist 
                                or are intended to exist in connection 
                                with any applicable distributed ledger, 
                                distributed ledger system, or 
                                distributed ledger application, such as 
                                users, service providers, developers, 
                                transaction validators, and governance 
                                participants;
                                    ``(III) a discussion of any 
                                mechanisms by which control or 
                                authority are exerted with respect to 
                                that distributed ledger system, if 
                                applicable, or the related ancillary 
                                asset; and
                                    ``(IV) any critical operational 
                                dependencies of any applicable 
                                distributed ledger, distributed ledger 
                                system, or distributed ledger 
                                application or of the related ancillary 
                                asset.
                            ``(vi) Risk factors that may materially 
                        affect the liquidity of the ancillary asset, 
                        investor demand with respect to the ancillary 
                        asset, or the market price or value of the 
                        ancillary asset.
                            ``(vii) To the extent available to the 
                        ancillary asset originator, the average daily 
                        price for a constant unit of value of the 
                        ancillary asset during the relevant reporting 
                        period, as well as the 12-month high and low 
                        prices for the ancillary asset, as calculated 
                        based on the 3 exchanges with the largest 
                        trading volume in that ancillary asset.
                            ``(viii) If applicable, and subject to 
                        cybersecurity best practices, information 
                        relating to any external audit of the code and 
                        functionality of the ancillary asset, including 
                        the entity performing the audit and the 
                        experience of the entity in conducting similar 
                        audits.
                            ``(ix) Information relating to custodial 
                        services available for the ancillary asset.
                            ``(x) Information on intellectual property 
                        rights claimed or disputed relating to the 
                        ancillary asset.
                            ``(xi) A description of the technology 
                        underlying the initial distribution and trading 
                        of the ancillary asset, including the source 
                        code for the ancillary asset, if applicable, 
                        and technical requirements for holding, 
                        accessing, and transferring the ancillary 
                        asset.
                            ``(xii) If applicable, a description of the 
                        steps necessary to independently access, 
                        search, and verify the transaction history of 
                        the ancillary asset.
                    ``(C) In addition to the information expressly 
                required to be included under subparagraphs (A) and 
                (B), the ancillary asset originator or digital asset 
                intermediary, as applicable, shall provide such further 
                material information, if any, as may be necessary to 
                ensure that the statements made in the disclosure are 
                not, in light of the circumstances under which the 
                statements are made, materially misleading.
            ``(3) Termination of requirements.--
                    ``(A) Termination.--The obligation of an ancillary 
                asset originator to provide disclosures under paragraph 
                (1) shall terminate on the date that a certification 
                becomes effective under subparagraph (B), including 
                through an approval or deemed approval.
                    ``(B) Certification.--
                            ``(i) In general.--A certification covered 
                        party may submit to the Commission a 
                        certification, based on the knowledge of the 
                        certification covered party after due inquiry 
                        and supported by reasonable evidence, that 
                        states--
                                    ``(I) that--
                                            ``(aa) during the 180-day 
                                        period preceding the date on 
                                        which the certification covered 
                                        party submits the 
                                        certification, and as of the 
                                        date of submission, no 
                                        certification covered party has 
                                        engaged in more than a nominal 
                                        level of entrepreneurial or 
                                        managerial efforts (as defined 
                                        by the Commission by rule), 
                                        which shall not, for the 
                                        purposes of this clause, 
                                        include providing 
                                        administrative services alone;
                                            ``(bb) any efforts 
                                        described in item (aa) were not 
                                        a primary factor in determining 
                                        the value of the related 
                                        ancillary asset (which may 
                                        include that any essential 
                                        promises made by the 
                                        certification covered party 
                                        have been fulfilled); and
                                            ``(cc) a certification is 
                                        effective under section 104(d) 
                                        of the Lummis-Gillibrand 
                                        Responsible Financial 
                                        Innovation Act of 2026;
                                    ``(II) in good faith that the 
                                certification covered party does not 
                                reasonably expect there to be any 
                                efforts that would render the 
                                certification covered party unable to 
                                provide a new certification following 
                                the date of the certification; and
                                    ``(III) that substantially all 
                                material information that is reasonably 
                                expected to contribute to the value of 
                                the ancillary assets offered, sold, or 
                                distributed to the public by the 
                                ancillary asset originator is, and is 
                                reasonably expected to remain, 
                                available to the public.
                            ``(ii) Change in circumstances.--
                                    ``(I) Effectiveness of the 
                                certification.--A certification under 
                                clause (i) shall remain effective until 
                                the date on which any certification 
                                covered party engages in 
                                entrepreneurial or managerial efforts 
                                that would render the certification 
                                covered party unable to meet the 
                                standards of the certification.
                                    ``(II) New disclosures required.--
                                On and after the date described in 
                                subclause (I), the certification 
                                covered party undertaking efforts 
                                described in that subclause shall be 
                                responsible for furnishing to the 
                                Commission the disclosures required 
                                under paragraph (1), including a 
                                description of the change in 
                                circumstances.
                                    ``(III) Periodic disclosures.--The 
                                furnishing of disclosures pursuant to 
                                subclause (II) shall restart the 
                                schedule for periodic disclosures under 
                                paragraph (1).
                                    ``(IV) Prior certifications.--A 
                                certification submitted under clause 
                                (i) before a change in circumstances 
                                shall not be deemed false or misleading 
                                solely by reason of subsequent 
                                reengagement under this clause.
                            ``(iii) Commission denial.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--The Commission 
                                may deny a certification submitted 
                                under clause (i) by a certification 
                                covered party by--
                                            ``(aa) issuing a written 
                                        notice of objection to the 
                                        certification submitted under 
                                        clause (i) or upon determining 
                                        that more than a nominal level 
                                        of entrepreneurial or 
                                        managerial efforts has been 
                                        undertaken by any certification 
                                        covered party after the 
                                        submission of the 
                                        certification; and
                                            ``(bb) providing to the 
                                        certification covered party 10 
                                        days notice of the intent of 
                                        the Commission to deny that 
                                        certification, during which 
                                        period interested persons shall 
                                        have an opportunity to submit 
                                        written data, views, and 
                                        arguments relating to that 
                                        certification.
                                    ``(II) Requirements after notice of 
                                intent.--After the 10-day period 
                                described in subclause (I)(bb), the 
                                Commission shall--
                                            ``(aa) upon request of the 
                                        certification covered party, 
                                        provide an opportunity for the 
                                        oral presentation of data, 
                                        views, and arguments by any 
                                        interested persons; and
                                            ``(bb) have a vote of the 
                                        Commission on whether to grant 
                                        or deny the certification, 
                                        based on a finding as to 
                                        whether the applicable 
                                        ancillary asset meets the 
                                        standard for certification 
                                        under clause (i).
                                    ``(III) Final agency action.--
                                Denial under this clause constitutes 
                                final agency action reviewable under 
                                applicable law.
                            ``(iv) Deemed approval.--If the Commission 
                        fails to issue a written notice of objection or 
                        non-objection within 90 days after submission 
                        of a certification under clause (i), the 
                        certification shall be deemed approved by the 
                        Commission.
                            ``(v) Withdrawal.--A certification covered 
                        party may withdraw a certification submitted 
                        under clause (i) at any time before that 
                        certification is approved or denied.
                            ``(vi) Designated commission office.--The 
                        Commission shall designate an office that 
                        shall--
                                    ``(I) acknowledge the receipt of 
                                certifications submitted under clause 
                                (i);
                                    ``(II) support certification 
                                covered parties seeking certification 
                                under clause (i) by providing guidance 
                                regarding the mechanics of preparing 
                                and submitting those certifications; 
                                and
                                    ``(III) route certifications 
                                submitted under clause (i), together 
                                with any associated comments or 
                                recommendations, to the appropriate 
                                division or office of the Commission 
                                for review.
                            ``(vii) Advance review.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--A certification 
                                covered party may submit a 
                                certification under clause (i) before 
                                the offer, sale, or distribution of a 
                                network token.
                                    ``(II) Intended originator.--In 
                                submitting for a certification for 
                                advance review under subclause (I), a 
                                certification covered party shall 
                                identify the person intending to offer, 
                                sell, or distribute the applicable 
                                network token, and that person shall be 
                                treated as the applicable ancillary 
                                asset originator for the purposes of 
                                this subparagraph.
                            ``(viii) Tolling.--Any applicable period 
                        specified in this subparagraph may be tolled, 
                        for periods of not longer than 60 days, during 
                        the 3-year period following the effective date 
                        of the Digital Asset Market Clarity Act, upon a 
                        showing in writing that the submitting 
                        certification covered party has not 
                        substantially responded to a request for 
                        information from the Commission within a 
                        reasonable time.
                            ``(ix) Misstatements or omissions.--Any 
                        material misstatement or omission to state a 
                        material fact, including with respect to 
                        continuing compliance, in a certification that 
                        has become effective under this subparagraph 
                        shall constitute grounds for the Commission, 
                        consistent with the securities laws, to--
                                    ``(I) issue an order denying, 
                                suspending, or revoking the 
                                effectiveness of that certification; 
                                and
                                    ``(II) pursue any appropriate 
                                enforcement action.
            ``(4) Voluntary disclosure.--An ancillary asset originator 
        may voluntarily furnish to the Commission the information 
        required under this subsection if the ancillary asset 
        originator determines that it is reasonably likely that the 
        ancillary asset originator will become subject to the 
        requirements of paragraph (1) or (3) of subsection (c) in the 
        future.
            ``(5) Rulemaking considerations.--In adopting rules under 
        this subsection, the Commission shall--
                    ``(A) require only such information as the 
                Commission finds to be necessary or appropriate to 
                protect investors, maintain fair, orderly, and 
                efficient markets, and facilitate capital formation, 
                innovation, and efficiency;
                    ``(B) include in any final versions of those rules 
                a cost-benefit analysis evaluating the effects of any 
                such rule on innovation, efficiency, competition, 
                maintaining fair and orderly markets, and capital 
                formation, including the competitiveness of United 
                States market participants; and
                    ``(C) act jointly with the Commodity Futures 
                Trading Commission to establish a process for 
                implementing the requirements of this subsection, 
                including with respect to listing and disclosures, that 
                is consistent and coordinated with the listing process 
                for digital asset intermediaries.
            ``(6) Limitations.--Rules adopted under this subsection 
        shall not require the inclusion of financial statements of an 
        ancillary asset originator, except with respect to the 
        disclosure of financial information under paragraph (2).
    ``(e) Exemptions.--The Commission may, by order, exempt an 
ancillary asset originator or digital asset intermediary, or any class 
of ancillary asset originators or digital asset intermediaries, from 
specified requirements under subsection (d) if it is in the public 
interest or for the protection of investors, consistent with the 
purposes of this section and subject to such conditions as the 
Commission determines necessary to protect investors and in the public 
interest.
    ``(f) Confidential Treatment of Certain Information.--Subject to 
Commission rules and procedures, an ancillary asset originator required 
to furnish to the Commission disclosures under subsection (d), or a 
digital asset intermediary furnishing those disclosures in lieu of such 
an ancillary asset originator, may submit a request for confidential 
treatment of information included in such disclosures pursuant to 
procedures the Commission shall establish and that are modeled on or 
identical to section 230.406 of title 17, Code of Federal Regulations, 
or any successor regulation.
    ``(g) Effect of Failure to Comply.--The failure of an ancillary 
asset originator or digital asset intermediary to comply with a 
provision of this section shall not, by itself, cause an ancillary 
asset offered, sold, or distributed by that ancillary asset originator 
(or that the ancillary asset originator caused to be offered, sold, or 
distributed) to be a security under any applicable law.
    ``(h) Liability for False or Misleading Statements.--
            ``(1) In general.--It shall be unlawful for an ancillary 
        asset originator, in any initial and periodic disclosure, 
        certification, or other document furnished under this section, 
        to make an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state 
        a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to 
        make the statements therein not misleading.
            ``(2) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this subsection may 
        be construed as limiting the application of section 240.10b-5 
        of title 17, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor 
        regulation, to false or misleading disclosure statements or 
        preventing any private right of action otherwise available 
        under the securities laws.
    ``(i) Special Disposition Restrictions by Related Persons.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Commission shall adopt rules, 
        consistent with section 104 of the Lummis-Gillibrand 
        Responsible Financial Innovation Act of 2026, establishing 
        limitations on the disposition of certain ancillary assets with 
        specified characteristics by related persons.
            ``(2) Considerations.--In adopting rules under paragraph 
        (1), the Commission shall consider what is necessary or 
        appropriate to protect investors, promote capital formation, 
        and maintain fair and orderly markets, which may include the 
        prevention of insider self-dealing or other abuses of a 
        privileged position.
    ``(j) Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements.--In any action 
against an ancillary asset originator or digital asset intermediary 
arising under this Act that is based on an untrue statement of a 
material fact or omission of a material fact necessary to make the 
statement not misleading, no liability shall arise with respect to any 
forward-looking statement (including any statement of plans, 
objectives, projections, expectations, or assumptions concerning future 
performance, financial position, development milestones, asset utility, 
system adoption, or market conditions) made in an ancillary asset 
disclosure, statement, or other document furnished pursuant to this 
section, if the statement is--
            ``(1) identified as forward-looking; and
            ``(2) accompanied by meaningful cautionary language that 
        identifies important factors that could cause actual results to 
        differ materially.
    ``(k) Transactions Before Effective Date.--
            ``(1) Primary transactions.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, neither the Commission nor any private 
        plaintiff may initiate, pursue, or maintain any action, or an 
        appeal of an action, for a violation of section 5 or 12(a)(1) 
        of this Act arising from any offer, sale, or distribution of 
        ancillary assets occurring before the effective date of the 
        Digital Asset Market Clarity Act, provided that the ancillary 
        asset originator or a certification covered party complies with 
        any applicable requirements under subsection (c)(3).
            ``(2) Primary transactions related to fraud.--Nothing in 
        paragraph (1) shall limit the ability of the Commission to 
        bring an action based on the anti-fraud or anti-manipulation 
        authorities of the Commission.
            ``(3) Secondary transactions.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, the offer, sale, or distribution of a network 
        token by a person occurring before the effective date of the 
        Digital Asset Market Clarity Act shall be treated as not 
        involving the offer, sale, or distribution of a security 
        under--
                    ``(A) section 2(a)(1);
                    ``(B) section 3(a) of the Securities Exchange Act 
                of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a));
                    ``(C) section 2(a) of the Investment Company Act of 
                1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a));
                    ``(D) section 202(a) of the Investment Advisers Act 
                of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a));
                    ``(E) section 16 of the Securities Investor 
                Protection Act of 1970 (15 U.S.C. 78lll); or
                    ``(F) any applicable requirement of State law that 
                is functionally equivalent to the provisions described 
                in subparagraphs (A) through (E), including any 
                provision of State law that directly or indirectly 
                prohibits, limits, or imposes any conditions on the 
                use, offer, sale, transfer, or disposition of a network 
                token in a manner that is--
                            ``(i) not substantially similar to 
                        prohibitions, limitations, or conditions 
                        imposed by that State relating to assets that 
                        are commodities under the laws of that State; 
                        and
                            ``(ii) inconsistent with this section.
            ``(4) No inference of liability.--Nothing in paragraph (1), 
        (2), or (3) may be construed as an admission, acknowledgment, 
        or inference of liability for any act, transaction, or conduct 
        occurring before the effective date of the Digital Asset Market 
        Clarity Act.
            ``(5) Rules of construction.--Nothing in this subsection 
        may be construed to--
                    ``(A) impair vested rights or contractual 
                obligations lawfully established before the effective 
                date of the Digital Asset Market Clarity Act; or
                    ``(B) limit the authority of the Commission to 
                bring an action against an ancillary asset originator 
                or a related person for securities fraud or 
                manipulation in connection with a statement, a 
                disclosure, or conduct by that ancillary asset 
                originator or related person, except that the 
                Commission may not exercise that authority to treat a 
                network token as a security or regulate secondary 
                market trading.
    ``(l) Rules of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
construed to--
            ``(1) preclude the Commission from bringing an appropriate 
        action or entering into a settlement agreement relating to a 
        violation or alleged violation of this section;
            ``(2) permit compliance with this section to be used in any 
        administrative or judicial proceeding as evidence that an 
        ancillary asset is a security;
            ``(3) prohibit the offer, sale, or distribution of a 
        digital asset in reliance on an exemption from registration 
        under this Act, other than Regulation Crypto (as adopted 
        pursuant to section 103 of the Lummis-Gillibrand Responsible 
        Financial Innovation Act of 2026); or
            ``(4) require more than 1 person to furnish the disclosures 
        required under subsection (d), unless otherwise provided by the 
        Commission by rule.
    ``(m) Anti-Evasion.--
            ``(1) Anti-evasion.--The Commission may issue such 
        regulations as the Commission considers necessary or 
        appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of 
        investors to administer and prevent willful evasion of--
                    ``(A) this section;
                    ``(B) sections 103 and 104 of the Lummis-Gillibrand 
                Responsible Financial Innovation Act of 2026; and
                    ``(C) with respect to an ancillary asset originator 
                and related persons, the securities laws amended by the 
                Lummis-Gillibrand Responsible Financial Innovation Act 
                of 2026.
            ``(2) Considerations.--In adopting rules under this 
        section--
                    ``(A) the form, label, and written documentation of 
                an agreement, contract, or transaction, or an entity, 
                shall not be dispositive in determining whether the 
                agreement, contract, or transaction, or the entity, has 
                been entered into or structured to willfully evade the 
                requirements of this section;
                    ``(B) the Commission may consider whether, based on 
                the totality of facts and circumstances, the principal 
                purpose of any arrangement, allocation of rights, 
                interposition of entities, or sequencing of steps is to 
                willfully circumvent the requirements of this section 
                or the restrictions set forth in section 104 of the 
                Lummis-Gillibrand Responsible Financial Innovation Act 
                of 2026, by satisfying the literal terms while 
                defeating the purpose and policy of this section;
                    ``(C) for purposes of subparagraph (B), factors 
                that may be considered, without being dispositive, in 
                determining whether a principal purpose to willfully 
                circumvent this section exists may include--
                            ``(i) removal of a disqualifying financial 
                        right described in subsection (a)(7)(B) from 
                        the instrument coupled with its re-introduction 
                        through a substantially equivalent right held 
                        by a related person or controlled vehicle, 
                        including, by way of example, any nominally 
                        independent foundation, decentralized 
                        autonomous organization, laboratory, or similar 
                        arrangement;
                            ``(ii) circular or non-commercial flows of 
                        value among related persons designed to 
                        simulate network utility; and
                            ``(iii) timing of steps designed to 
                        trigger, accelerate, or delay certification or 
                        termination of disclosure obligations without a 
                        material change in circumstances relating to 
                        the asset; and
                    ``(D) the Commission shall provide that evasion 
                shall not have occurred if an agreement, contract, or 
                transaction is entered into for a legitimate business 
                purpose and is not structured with a principal purpose 
                of willfully circumventing the requirements of this 
                section.
    ``(n) Fiduciary Obligations.--
            ``(1) Fiduciary duties under state law.--Nothing in this 
        section, or in any rule issued under this section, may be 
        construed to limit, preempt, or otherwise affect any fiduciary 
        duty of an ancillary asset originator, or of any director, 
        officer, or controlling person of an ancillary asset 
        originator, arising under the laws of any State.
            ``(2) Preservation of fiduciary and other duties to 
        customers, clients, and shareholders.--Nothing in this section, 
        or in any rule issued under this section, may be construed to 
        limit, preempt, or otherwise affect any fiduciary duty that any 
        person owes to a customer, client, or shareholder under any 
        other provision of Federal or State law, including in 
        connection with the offer, sale, transfer, distribution, or 
        custody of an ancillary asset.
    ``(o) Savings Clause.--Except as provided by the Digital Asset 
Market Clarity Act and the amendments made by that Act, nothing in this 
section may be construed to limit the authority of the Commission under 
the securities laws.''.
    (b) Rulemaking.--Not later than 360 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Commission shall conduct a notice and 
comment rulemaking as necessary or appropriate to carry out section 4B 
of the Securities Act of 1933, as added by subsection (a).

SEC. 103. EXEMPTION AND RULEMAKING FOR CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS INVOLVING 
              ANCILLARY ASSETS.

    (a) Adoption of Regulation Crypto.--The Commission shall adopt 
rules under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.) and the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), which shall be 
referred to collectively as ``Regulation Crypto'', to implement 
subsections (b), (c), and (d) of this section.
    (b) Exemption for Certain Transactions Involving Ancillary 
Assets.--
            (1) Exemption.--
                    (A) In general.--Rules adopted by the Commission 
                under this section shall provide that the registration 
                requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 
                77a et seq.) shall not apply to an offer, sale, or 
                distribution of an investment contract involving an 
                ancillary asset, if the offer, sale, or distribution 
                does not exceed the greater of--
                            (i) $50,000,000 in gross proceeds per 
                        calendar year for a period of not longer than 4 
                        years; or
                            (ii) 10 percent of the total dollar value 
                        of those ancillary assets that are outstanding, 
                        as of the date of that offer, sale, or 
                        distribution.
                    (B) Continued application of certain provisions.--
                Sections 12(a)(2) and 17 of the Securities Act of 1933 
                (15 U.S.C. 77l(a)(2), 77q) shall apply with respect to 
                an offer, sale, or distribution of an investment 
                contract involving an ancillary asset that is described 
                in subparagraph (A).
            (2) Limitation.--An ancillary asset originator may not 
        raise more than $200,000,000 in total gross proceeds in 
        reliance on the rules adopted under subsection (a).
            (3) Review and adjustment for inflation.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, and every 2 years 
                thereafter, the Commission shall--
                            (i) review the amounts described in 
                        paragraphs (1)(A)(i) and (2);
                            (ii) adjust the amounts described in 
                        paragraphs (1)(A)(i) and (2) to account for 
                        inflation; and
                            (iii) increase the amounts described in 
                        paragraphs (1)(A)(i) and (2) as the Commission 
                        determines appropriate, if that action would be 
                        in the public interest and consistent with the 
                        protection of investors.
                    (B) Report.--If the Commission, after conducting a 
                review under subparagraph (A), determines not to 
                increase the amount described in paragraph (1)(A)(i) or 
                (2) (other than to adjust that amount for inflation, as 
                required under subparagraph (A)(ii) of this paragraph), 
                the Commission shall submit to the Committee on 
                Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and 
                the Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
                Representatives a report detailing the reasons that the 
                Commission did not increase that amount.
    (c) Conditions for Exemption.--The following conditions shall apply 
to the exemption provided under subsection (b):
            (1) Initial disclosures.--Not later than 30 days before the 
        date on which the applicable ancillary asset originator, any 
        affiliate of the ancillary asset originator, or any underwriter 
        of an investment contract, offers, sells, or distributes an 
        ancillary asset in reliance on the rules adopted under 
        subsection (a), the ancillary asset originator shall furnish to 
        the Commission the disclosures required under section 4B(d) of 
        the Securities Act of 1933, as added by this Act, subject to 
        the periodic semiannual disclosure requirements of that 
        section.
            (2) Coordinated control.--If the applicable ancillary asset 
        is reliant on a distributed ledger system that, together with 
        that ancillary asset, is subject to coordinated control, 
        including by related persons, the restrictions on disposition 
        under section 104 shall apply.
            (3) Criteria.--The applicable ancillary asset originator 
        may not be--
                    (A) a company that is not organized under, and 
                subject to, the laws of a State or territory of the 
                United States or the District of Columbia;
                    (B) a development-stage company that either--
                            (i) has no specific business plan or 
                        purpose; or
                            (ii) has indicated that the business plan 
                        of the company is to merge with or acquire an 
                        unidentified company;
                    (C) an investment company (as defined in section 
                3(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 
                80a-3(a))) or a company (as defined in section 2 of 
                that Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-2)) that would be an investment 
                company under section 3(a) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-
                3(a)) but for the exclusions provided from that 
                definition by section 3(c) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-
                3(c)), provided that, solely for the purposes of 
                evaluating eligibility to rely on the exemption 
                provided under subsection (b), an ancillary asset 
                originator shall not be deemed to be an investment 
                company solely by virtue of investing, reinvesting, 
                owning, holding, or trading ancillary assets, including 
                ancillary assets offered for sale by the ancillary 
                asset originator;
                    (D) a person issuing fractional undivided interests 
                in other commodities;
                    (E) a person that is or has been subject to any 
                order of the Commission entered pursuant to section 
                12(j) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 
                78l(j)) after the date of enactment of this Act and 
                during the 5-year period preceding the offer and sale;
                    (F) a person that is or has been disqualified 
                pursuant to section 230.506(d) of title 17, Code of 
                Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation, 
                unless waived by order of the Commission;
                    (G) a person that is or has been disqualified 
                pursuant to section 230.251 through 230.263 of title 
                17, Code of Federal Regulations (commonly referred to 
                as ``Regulation A''), or any successor regulations, 
                unless waived by order of the Commission; or
                    (H) a person convicted of a felony offense 
                involving insider trading, embezzlement, cybercrime, 
                money laundering, financing of terrorism, or financial 
                fraud, within the last 10 years.
            (4) Furnishing notice of reliance.--The applicable 
        ancillary asset originator shall electronically furnish to the 
        Commission a notice of reliance on the rules adopted under 
        subsection (a) not fewer than 30 days before the date on which 
        the ancillary asset originator first offers, sells, or 
        distributes an ancillary asset in reliance on those rules, 
        which shall contain the following information:
                    (A) The name of the ancillary asset originator.
                    (B) A statement by a person duly authorized by the 
                ancillary asset originator that the conditions of those 
                rules are satisfied.
                    (C) The website where the summary documents of the 
                ancillary asset originator, if any, may be found and 
                made available for public consumption.
                    (D) An email address at which the ancillary asset 
                originator may be contacted.
            (5) Public availability.--The Commission shall require that 
        the disclosures furnished to the Commission under section 4B(d) 
        of the Securities Act of 1933, as added by this Act, be made 
        publicly available in a manner that provides timely and 
        continuing access.
            (6) Form and manner.--The disclosures furnished to the 
        Commission under section 4B(d) of the Securities Act of 1933, 
        as added by this Act, shall be prepared, furnished, and made 
        public in the form and manner prescribed by the Commission, 
        including through the use of electronic furnishing, web 
        posting, machine-readable formats, and plain-English legends, 
        as the Commission determines necessary or appropriate in the 
        public interest or for the protection of investors.
    (d) Status Under Securities Laws.--
            (1) In general.--A disclosure furnished under section 4B of 
        the Securities Act of 1933, as added by this Act, including an 
        initial or periodic disclosure furnished under subsection (d) 
        of such section 4B, and any other document furnished under the 
        rules adopted under subsection (a) of this section, shall be 
        deemed to be--
                    (A) a ``prospectus'' solely--
                            (i) for purposes of section 12(a)(2) of the 
                        Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77l(a)(2)); 
                        and
                            (ii) with respect to the person that is the 
                        purchasing party in a transaction made in 
                        reliance on the rules adopted under subsection 
                        (a); and
                    (B) a ``statement'' solely for purposes of--
                            (i) section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 
                        1933 (15 U.S.C. 77q(a));
                            (ii) section 10(b) of the Securities 
                        Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78j(b)); and
                            (iii) section 240.10b-5 of title 17, Code 
                        of Federal Regulations, or any successor 
                        regulation.
            (2) Registration statement.--
                    (A) In general.--A disclosure furnished under 
                section 4B of the Securities Act of 1933, as added by 
                this Act, including an initial or periodic disclosure 
                furnished under subsection (d) of such section 4B, or 
                any other document furnished pursuant to the rules 
                adopted under subsection (a), shall not be deemed to be 
                a ``registration statement'' for purposes of section 11 
                of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77k) or to 
                have been filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 
                1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.).
                    (B) Civil liability.--Liability under section 
                12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 
                77l(a)(2)) relating to a disclosure furnished under 
                section 4B of the Securities Act of 1933, as added by 
                this Act, including an initial or periodic disclosure 
                furnished under subsection (d) of such section 4B, or 
                any other document furnished pursuant to the rules 
                adopted under subsection (a), shall only apply to the 
                person making statements in that disclosure or other 
                document, and only a person that purchased an ancillary 
                asset in a transaction involving disclosures provided 
                pursuant to the rules adopted under subsection (a) 
                shall have a claim under such section 12(a)(2).
            (3) Forward-looking statements.--In any action against an 
        ancillary asset originator under this title or the amendments 
        made by this title that is based on an untrue statement of a 
        material fact or omission of a material fact necessary to make 
        the statement not misleading, no liability shall arise with 
        respect to any forward-looking statement (including a statement 
        of plans, objectives, projections, expectations, or assumptions 
        concerning future performance, financial position, development 
        milestones, digital asset utility, system adoption, or market 
        conditions) made in a disclosure, statement, or other document 
        furnished pursuant to section 4B of the Securities Act of 1933, 
        as added by this Act, including an initial or periodic 
        disclosure furnished under subsection (d) of such section 4B, 
        or furnished under this section, if the statement is--
                    (A) identified as forward-looking; and
                    (B) accompanied by meaningful cautionary language 
                that identifies important factors that could cause 
                actual results to differ materially.

SEC. 104. SPECIAL DISPOSITION RESTRICTIONS BY RELATED PERSONS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Certification covered party.--The term ``certification 
        covered party'' means, with respect to an ancillary asset--
                    (A) the ancillary asset originator;
                    (B) a subsidiary of the ancillary asset originator;
                    (C) a related person of the ancillary asset 
                originator; or
                    (D) any entity that directly or indirectly controls 
                or is controlled by a common entity with an ancillary 
                asset originator.
            (2) Covered token.--The term ``covered token'' means any 
        unit of an ancillary asset that was acquired from the ancillary 
        asset originator with respect to that ancillary asset or an 
        agent or underwriter thereof.
            (3) Distributed ledger control person.--The term 
        ``distributed ledger control person'' means, with respect to a 
        distributed ledger system, any person or group of persons under 
        common control, other than a decentralized governance system, 
        that has the unilateral authority, directly or indirectly, 
        through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship, 
        or otherwise, to control or materially alter the functionality, 
        operation, or rules of consensus or agreement of the 
        distributed ledger system or a related ancillary asset.
    (b) Coordinated Control.--
            (1) In general.--The Commission shall adopt rules, based on 
        the criteria described in paragraph (2), to define the 
        circumstances under which a distributed ledger system, together 
        with a related ancillary asset, is considered to be under 
        coordinated control.
            (2) Considerations.--In adopting rules under paragraph (1), 
        the Commission shall consider the following criteria as indicia 
        that a distributed ledger system described in that paragraph, 
        together with the related ancillary asset, is considered to be 
        under coordinated control:
                    (A) Open digital system.--The extent to which the 
                distributed ledger system is not--
                            (i) a distributed ledger, the protocol of 
                        which is freely and publicly available;
                            (ii) a distributed ledger application the 
                        source code of which is--
                                    (I) freely and publicly available 
                                via open-source code; and
                                    (II) recorded on a distributed 
                                ledger described in clause (i); or
                            (iii) an analogue to a distributed ledger 
                        or distributed ledger application described in 
                        clause (i) or (ii), as determined by the 
                        Commission by rule or order.
                    (B) Permissionless and credibly neutral digital 
                system.--The extent to which a person or group of 
                persons under common control has--
                            (i) the unilateral authority, via operation 
                        of the distributed ledger system, to restrict, 
                        censor, or prohibit use of the distributed 
                        ledger system, including any applicable system-
                        based user activity; or
                            (ii) private permissions, hard-coded 
                        privileges, or similar capabilities granted by 
                        the source code of the distributed ledger 
                        system that provides preferential treatment 
                        compared to other similarly situated persons.
                    (C) Distributed digital network.--The extent to 
                which a person or group of persons under common control 
                has beneficial ownership of, in the aggregate, more 
                than 49 percent of the total amount of outstanding 
                units of the ancillary asset or voting power with 
                respect to any governance system that relates to the 
                distributed ledger system.
                    (D) Autonomous distributed ledger system.--The 
                extent to which--
                            (i) the distributed ledger system has not 
                        yet reached an autonomous state; and
                            (ii) a person or group of persons under 
                        common control has the unilateral authority, 
                        directly or indirectly, to alter or change the 
                        functionality, operation, or rules of consensus 
                        or agreement of the distributed ledger system.
                    (E) Economic independence.--The extent to which the 
                primary programmatic mechanisms of the distributed 
                ledger system that are intended to facilitate 
                substantial value accrual to the ancillary asset 
                through the functioning of the distributed ledger 
                system are not yet functional.
            (3) Safe harbors.--
                    (A) In general.--The Commission shall establish 
                safe harbors under which a distributed ledger system, 
                together with a related ancillary asset, will not be 
                considered to be under coordinated control for the 
                purposes of section 103(c)(2).
                    (B) Decentralized governance systems.--
                            (i) In general.--For the purposes of this 
                        section, a decentralized governance system 
                        shall not be considered to be a person or a 
                        group of persons under common control.
                            (ii) Distributed ledger systems.--For the 
                        purposes of this section, a distributed ledger 
                        system, together with any related ancillary 
                        asset, shall not be precluded from being 
                        considered to not be under coordinated control 
                        solely based on a functional, administrative, 
                        clerical, or ministerial action of a 
                        decentralized governance system, including any 
                        such action taken by a person acting on behalf 
                        of and at the direction of that decentralized 
                        governance system, as determined by the 
                        Commission and consistent with the protection 
                        of investors, maintenance of fair, orderly, and 
                        efficient markets, and the facilitation of 
                        capital formation.
                    (C) Emergency measures.--For the purposes of this 
                section, a pre-defined, temporary, rules-based 
                cybersecurity emergency measure that is exercised by an 
                incident response or security council exclusively in 
                response to a specific and documented cybersecurity 
                incident or imminent threat pursuant to publicly 
                disclosed, on-chain authorization mechanisms, that is 
                strictly limited in scope and duration solely to 
                address that cybersecurity incident or imminent threat, 
                and that is exercised without unilateral control by any 
                single person, shall not alone constitute common 
                control or an agreement to work in concert, if those 
                rules and mechanisms, including the procedures and 
                operational limits governing the emergency measure, are 
                disclosed in publicly available written documentation 
                reasonably available to the applicable Federal agency 
                by a decentralized autonomous organization or similar 
                legal entity sufficiently in advance of any exercise of 
                the emergency measure.
                    (D) Nonexclusive.--The safe harbors established 
                under subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) shall not be 
                exclusive and the Commission shall consider such other 
                circumstances as the Commission finds in the public 
                interest or for the protection of investors.
            (4) Evidence.--The Commission may, in adopting rules under 
        this subsection, require such certifications, third party 
        verifications, or other evidence as the Commission determines 
        necessary or appropriate to determine whether a distributed 
        ledger system is under coordinated control for the purposes of 
        section 103(c)(2).
            (5) Rule of construction.--For purposes of this 
        subsection--
                    (A) the existence or termination of coordinated 
                control shall be determined independently of whether 
                entrepreneurial or managerial efforts described in 
                section 4B of the Securities Act of 1933, as added by 
                this Act, have been completed; and
                    (B) the elimination of coordinated control shall be 
                a prerequisite to the completion of efforts described 
                in subparagraph (A).
    (c) Special Restrictions on Disposition.--The Commission shall 
adopt rules that provide that, with respect to transactions involving 
an ancillary asset for which disclosures are required pursuant to 
section 4B(d) of the Securities Act of 1933, as added by this Act, when 
a sale of that ancillary asset is made by a related person, the 
following restrictions on that sale shall apply:
            (1) Sales prior to certification.--If the covered token was 
        acquired after the effective date of this Act and principally 
        relies on a distributed ledger system, the covered token may be 
        sold by a related person before that distributed ledger system 
        is certified as not subject to coordinated control, pursuant to 
        subsection (d), if--
                    (A) with respect to that distributed ledger system, 
                the disclosures required pursuant to section 4B(d) of 
                the Securities Act of 1933, as added by this Act, have 
                been furnished;
                    (B) the holder of the covered token has held the 
                units for not less than 12 months; and
                    (C) the amount of covered tokens sold in any 12-
                month period by the related person is--
                            (i) not greater than an amount to be 
                        determined by the Commission pursuant to notice 
                        and comment rulemaking not later than 360 days 
                        after the date of enactment of this Act, which 
                        rulemaking shall consider what is necessary or 
                        appropriate in the public interest, including, 
                        among other things, the protection of 
                        investors, whether the action will promote 
                        efficiency, competition, and capital formation, 
                        and how to foster the development of 
                        distributed ledger systems that are not subject 
                        to coordinated control; and
                            (ii) in no case equal to or greater than 
                        the amount determined by the Commission 
                        pursuant to the rulemaking described in 
                        paragraph (2)(C).
            (2) Sales after certification.--If the covered token was 
        acquired after the effective date of this Act and principally 
        relies on a distributed ledger system that is certified as not 
        subject to coordinated control pursuant to subsection (d), the 
        covered token may be sold by a related person, if--
                    (A) with respect to that distributed ledger system, 
                the disclosures required pursuant to section 4B(d) of 
                the Securities Act of 1933, as added by this Act, have 
                been furnished;
                    (B) the holder of the covered token has held the 
                units for not less than 6 months; and
                    (C) the amount of covered tokens sold in any 12-
                month period by the related person is not greater than 
                an amount to be determined by the Commission pursuant 
                to rulemaking that shall not be less than 10 percent of 
                the total amount of outstanding units of such ancillary 
                assets.
            (3) Sales of pre-existing covered tokens.--If the covered 
        token was acquired before the effective date of this Act and 
        principally relies on a distributed ledger system, the covered 
        token may be sold by a related person if--
                    (A) in the case that the distributed ledger system 
                has not been certified as not subject to coordinated 
                control pursuant to subsection (d)--
                            (i) the disclosures required pursuant to 
                        section 4B(d) of the Securities Act of 1933, as 
                        added by this Act, have been furnished; and
                            (ii) the holder of the covered token has 
                        held the units for not less than 12 months; and
                    (B) in the case that the distributed ledger system 
                has been certified as not subject to coordinated 
                control pursuant to subsection (d), the holder of the 
                covered token has held the units for not less than 6 
                months.
            (4) Limitations on transactions by distributed ledger 
        control persons.--If the holder of an ancillary asset that 
        principally relies on a distributed ledger system that has been 
        certified as not subject to coordinated control is a 
        distributed ledger control person with respect to that 
        distributed ledger system, that control person may resell that 
        ancillary asset if--
                    (A) that control person furnishes notice to the 
                Commission, in a form and manner determined by the 
                Commission, that the person has or intends to obtain an 
                authority described in subparagraph (B) with respect to 
                the distributed ledger system;
                    (B) that distributed ledger control person 
                furnishes disclosures to the Commission, in a form and 
                manner determined by the Commission, describing the 
                material activities, as determined by the Commission, 
                of the control person;
                    (C) with respect to that distributed ledger system, 
                disclosures have been furnished pursuant to section 
                4B(d) of the Securities Act of 1933, as added by this 
                Act; and
                    (D) that control person has satisfied such other 
                requirements applicable to that control person that may 
                be established by the Commission to prevent 
                manipulation or distortion of the value of the 
                ancillary asset, including resale restrictions 
                consistent with those applied to related persons that 
                are not control persons.
    (d) Certification of Non-Control by Related Persons.--
            (1) Submission.--With respect to an ancillary asset, a 
        certification covered party may furnish to the Commission a 
        written certification, in such form and manner as the 
        Commission may specify by rule consistent with subsection (b), 
        stating that the distributed ledger system is not under 
        coordinated control.
            (2) Automatic effectiveness.--A certification furnished 
        under paragraph (1) shall become effective, and the distributed 
        ledger system shall be deemed not to be under coordinated 
        control, on the date that is the earlier of--
                    (A) the date on which the Commission notifies the 
                certification covered party in writing that the 
                Commission does not object to the certification; or
                    (B) if the Commission has not denied the 
                certification under paragraph (3), the date that is 90 
                days after the date on which the certification is 
                furnished, or such shorter period as the Commission may 
                determine by rule.
            (3) Denial.--
                    (A) In general.--The Commission may deny a 
                certification furnished under paragraph (1)--
                            (i) only during the 90-day period beginning 
                        on the date on which the certification is 
                        furnished, or such shorter period as the 
                        Commission may determine by rule, or upon 
                        determining, based on reasonable evidence, that 
                        a material change in circumstances has occurred 
                        after the furnishing of the certification; and
                            (ii) by providing to the certification 
                        covered party 10 days notice of the intent of 
                        the Commission to deny that certification.
                    (B) Requirements after notice of intent.--After the 
                10-day period described in subparagraph (A)(ii), the 
                Commission shall--
                            (i) conduct a hearing; and
                            (ii) vote to deny the certification if 
                        there is a finding that the applicable 
                        ancillary asset does not meet the standard for 
                        certification that the operations of the 
                        distributed ledger system are not under such 
                        coordinated control.
                    (C) Final agency action.--Denial under this 
                paragraph constitutes final agency action reviewable 
                under applicable law.
            (4) Verification.--The Commission may, by rule, require 
        appropriate third-party verification of a certification 
        furnished under paragraph (1).
    (e) Disgorgement.--
            (1) In general.--Any profit realized by a related person 
        from the sale of an ancillary asset in violation of the 
        restrictions under subsection (c) shall inure to, and be 
        recoverable by, the holders of the ancillary asset, 
        irrespective of any intention of holding the asset.
            (2) Enforcement.--An action to recover profit described in 
        paragraph (1)--
                    (A) may be instituted at law or in equity in any 
                court of competent jurisdiction of the United States 
                by--
                            (i) the applicable ancillary asset 
                        originator;
                            (ii) the owner of any units of the 
                        applicable ancillary asset; or
                            (iii) the owner of any units of the 
                        applicable ancillary asset, in the name and on 
                        behalf of the ancillary asset originator, if 
                        the ancillary asset originator--
                                    (I) fails or refuses to bring the 
                                action within 60 days after a written 
                                request by any owner of not less than 5 
                                percent of the total amount of 
                                outstanding units of that ancillary 
                                asset; or
                                    (II) fails to diligently prosecute 
                                the action; and
                    (B) shall be brought not later than 2 years after 
                the date that profit was realized.
    (f) Exemption From Disposition Restrictions.--The Commission shall 
adopt rules that provide for the following exemptions from, or waivers 
to, disposition restrictions described in subsection (c):
            (1) Material hardship exemption.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the 
                Commission shall adopt rules and procedures to exempt 
                parties from related person restrictions with respect 
                to an ancillary asset where those restrictions conflict 
                with an obligation or requirement arising from one of 
                the following material hardships on a related person 
                with respect to the ancillary asset or the ancillary 
                asset originator:
                            (i) The death of the related person.
                            (ii) The bankruptcy or insolvency of the 
                        related person.
                            (iii) The dissolution, merger, or 
                        acquisition of a corporate person.
                            (iv) Tax liability relating to the receipt 
                        of the applicable ancillary asset.
                            (v) Such other material hardships as may be 
                        designated by the Commission.
                    (B) Requirements.--The rules and procedures adopted 
                under subparagraph (A) shall be designed to mitigate 
                the risk that parties may seek to structure holdings to 
                evade resale restrictions and exempt or waive the 
                application of resale restrictions only to the extent 
                necessary to address the identified material hardship.
            (2) Liquidity provision exemption.--The Commission shall 
        adopt rules to exempt from disposition restrictions parties 
        buying or selling an ancillary asset through regular two-sided 
        bidding and offering for the purposes of providing market 
        liquidity, provided that such activities are not undertaken for 
        the purpose of evading the requirements of this section.
            (3) Agency exemption.--The Commission shall adopt rules 
        that exempt a party acting as a custodian, trading platform, 
        broker, dealer or other agent from being treated as the owner 
        of customer or client assets or from being restricted in 
        facilitating sales on behalf of a customer or client if the 
        agent is otherwise determined to be a related person.
            (4) Exchange-traded product and passive fund exemption.--
        The Commission shall adopt rules to exempt from disposition 
        restrictions, as appropriate--
                    (A) exchange-traded products, the shares of which 
                are created and redeemed by authorized participants and 
                registered with the Commission; and
                    (B) passive pooled investment vehicles, whether or 
                not the shares of which are registered with the 
                Commission.
    (g) Related Person Disclosure Requirements.--The Commission shall 
adopt rules that provide for reporting to the Commission certain 
information with respect to ancillary asset holdings or transactions 
relating to ancillary assets by related persons, subject to the 
disposition restrictions provided in subsection (c):
            (1) Disclosure reports.--
                    (A) Disclosure of related person status.--Any 
                person, or group of persons under common control, 
                directly or indirectly, that acquire beneficial 
                ownership of 10 percent or more of the total amount of 
                outstanding units of any such ancillary asset, measured 
                as of the end of any calendar quarter, shall furnish 
                initial and continuing reports as determined by the 
                Commission.
                    (B) Sales of covered tokens by related person prior 
                to certification of non-control.--Quarterly reports 
                relating to the number of ancillary assets sold by a 
                related person in a form as required by the Commission.
                    (C) Sales of covered tokens by related person after 
                certification of non-control.--Quarterly reports 
                relating to the number of ancillary assets sold by a 
                related person that holds, at any point during the 
                applicable calendar quarter, in excess of 5 percent of 
                the total amount of outstanding units of such ancillary 
                asset in a form as required by the Commission.
                    (D) Sales of pre-existing covered tokens by related 
                person.--Quarterly reports relating to the number of 
                ancillary assets sold by a related person that holds in 
                excess of 5 percent of the total amount of outstanding 
                units of such ancillary asset in a form as required by 
                the Commission.
            (2) Confidential treatment.--The Commission may provide for 
        confidential treatment of information provided under this 
        subsection, or may exempt certain related persons from the 
        requirement to furnish a report required under this subsection, 
        pursuant to procedures the Commission shall establish and that 
        are modeled on or identical to section 230.406 of title 17, 
        Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation.
            (3) Good-faith furnishing standard.--
                    (A) In general.--Any obligation to furnish 
                information under this section applies only to the 
                furnisher acting on its own behalf and is limited to 
                information that is material and known, or reasonably 
                knowable after due inquiry, to that furnisher.
                    (B) Reliance.--A furnisher described in 
                subparagraph (A) may reasonably rely on public sources 
                and third-party attestations where appropriate.
                    (C) Liability.--Furnishing in good faith pursuant 
                to this section shall not create liability for 
                information outside the furnisher's possession, 
                custody, or control, or for omissions of information 
                the furnisher could not reasonably obtain without 
                breaching legal privilege, contractual confidentiality, 
                or other applicable law.
                    (D) Other persons.--Any person other than the 
                furnisher may, in good faith and absent knowledge to 
                the contrary, presume that a report required under 
                paragraph (1) has been timely furnished.
            (4) Life cycle event considerations.--The Commission shall 
        adopt rules establishing streamlined processes for the 
        following life cycle events:
                    (A) Successor disclosures in corporate 
                transactions.--The transfer of disclosure obligations 
                under this section to a successor entity in the event 
                of a merger, acquisition, or sale of substantially all 
                assets relating to the ancillary asset activities, 
                including a notice of succession.
                    (B) Cessation of work.--The cessation or suspension 
                of ongoing disclosure obligations under this section 
                where the ancillary asset originator or related person 
                no longer engages, and does not reasonably expect to 
                engage, in entrepreneurial or managerial efforts with 
                respect to the ancillary asset or its associated 
                distributed ledger system, including a notice of 
                cessation of work.
                    (C) Contractual termination.--The termination of 
                disclosure obligations under this section that attach 
                solely by virtue of a person's status as a related 
                person when a contractual arrangement with the 
                ancillary asset originator or distributed ledger system 
                has concluded, including a notice of cessation of 
                contractual relationship.
    (h) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be construed 
to--
            (1) limit or impair the anti-fraud or anti-manipulation 
        authorities of the Commission; or
            (2) preclude reliance on Regulation Crypto, as adopted 
        under section 103, or any other effective registration 
        statement or exemption from registration under the Securities 
        Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.), as amended by this Act.

SEC. 105. CHARACTERISTICS OF NETWORK TOKENS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Commission shall adopt rules that provide that--
            (1) a network token shall not be considered as providing a 
        disqualifying financial right under section 4B(a)(7)(B) of the 
        Securities Act of 1933, as added by this Act, if the market 
        value of the network token is primarily derived, or is 
        reasonably expected to be primarily derived, from a distributed 
        ledger system or from the broader adoption and use of such a 
        system, including where--
                    (A) the mechanisms of the distributed ledger system 
                collect, receive, accrue, or distribute consideration 
                from the functioning of the distributed ledger system;
                    (B) the network token provides governance 
                capabilities with respect to a distributed ledger 
                system or a decentralized governance system;
                    (C) the value of the network token appreciates or 
                depreciates due to the use of, or in response to the 
                efforts, operations, or financial performance of, the 
                distributed ledger system to which the network token 
                relates or its decentralized governance system; or
                    (D) for a network token that meets the definition 
                of an ancillary asset, the value of the network token 
                appreciates or depreciates due to the efforts of the 
                ancillary asset originator or related person; and
            (2) participants in offers or sales of network tokens 
        providing financial interests described in paragraph (1) shall 
        not be precluded from relying on the exemption from 
        registration under section 4B(b) of the Securities Act of 1933, 
        as added by this Act.
    (b) Effect of Rulings and Actions Before Date of Enactment.--
            (1) In general.--If, before the date of enactment of this 
        Act, a court of the United States, in a non-appealable final 
        judgment, found that a digital asset transaction was not an 
        offer, sale, or distribution of a security, a digital asset 
        transferred pursuant to that offer, sale, or distribution shall 
        not be considered to be a security under any provision of law 
        described in subsection (b)(2) of section 4B of the Securities 
        Act of 1933, as added by this Act.
            (2) Network tokens.--A network token shall not be 
        considered to be an ancillary asset, and shall not be 
        considered to be a security under any provision of law 
        described in subsection (b)(2) of section 4B of the Securities 
        Act of 1933, as added by this Act, if, on January 1, 2026, any 
        units of that network token were the principal asset of an 
        exchange-traded product--
                    (A) not registered under the Investment Company Act 
                of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1 et seq.); and
                    (B) the shares of which are listed and traded on a 
                national securities exchange registered under section 6 
                of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78f).

SEC. 106. EXEMPTIVE AUTHORITY.

    (a) Continued Applicability.--Nothing in this Act, or any amendment 
made by this Act, may be construed to amend, limit, impair, or 
otherwise affect the authority of the Commission to grant an exemption 
pursuant to any provision of law that is in effect on the day before 
the date of enactment of this Act, including pursuant to any of the 
following:
            (1) Section 28 of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 
        77z-3).
            (2) Section 36 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 
        U.S.C. 78mm).
            (3) Section 6(c) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 
        U.S.C. 80a-6(c)).
            (4) Section 206A of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 
        U.S.C. 80b-6a).
            (5) Section 304(d) of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 
        U.S.C. 77ddd(d)).
            (6) Section 4(g) of the Securities Investor Protection Act 
        of 1970 (15 U.S.C. 78ddd(g)).
    (b) General Exemptive Authority.--Section 28 of the Securities Act 
of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77z-3) is amended, in the matter preceding the 
matter relating to Schedule A--
            (1) by striking ``by rule or regulation'' and inserting 
        ``by rule, regulation, or order''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following: ``The Commission 
        shall, by rule or regulation, determine the procedures under 
        which an exemptive order under this section shall be granted 
        and may, in the sole discretion of the Commission, decline to 
        entertain any application for an order of exemption under this 
        section.''.

SEC. 107. MODERNIZATION OF RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENTS.

    The Commission shall adopt rules to modernize the recordkeeping 
requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a 
et seq.), the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-1 et 
seq.), and the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1 et 
seq.), including to facilitate the utilization of distributed ledger 
records.

SEC. 108. MODERNIZATION OF SECURITIES REGULATIONS FOR DIGITAL ASSET 
              ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Tailoring of Existing Requirements.--The Commission shall--
            (1) amend, rescind, replace, or supplement by rule, order, 
        guidance, exemptive relief, or any other appropriate action 
        (provided such action is consistent with chapter 5 of title 5, 
        United States Code, and other applicable law) each regulation, 
        form, interpretive statement, or other requirement within the 
        jurisdiction of the Commission that is not otherwise amended by 
        this Act (or required to be amended because of a provision of 
        this Act or an amendment made by this Act), to the extent that 
        such provision applies to any digital asset activity, including 
        any activity involving a security that is issued, recorded, or 
        transferred using distributed ledger technology, to the extent 
        that the provision is outdated, unnecessary, or unduly 
        burdensome in light of the unique technological characteristics 
        of digital assets or substantially similar technology, which 
        may include regulatory provisions governing--
                    (A) customer protection, including custody of 
                digital assets or substantially similar technology;
                    (B) transfer agent rules;
                    (C) books and records, or recordkeeping 
                requirements;
                    (D) clearance and settlement rules;
                    (E) broker-dealer, alternative trading system, and 
                exchange rules;
                    (F) issuer disclosure and ongoing reporting 
                requirements tailored to digital asset securities or 
                substantially similar technology involving securities; 
                and
                    (G) the use of vaults, digital asset receipts, or 
                receipts involving substantially similar technology, 
                vault tokens, or liquidity provider tokens; and
            (2) in imposing future obligations as those obligations 
        relate to digital assets or substantially similar technology, 
        do so in a manner consistent with the requirements described in 
        paragraph (1).
    (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be construed 
to limit the authority of the Commission to pursue fraud, manipulation, 
or deceptive practices involving digital assets or substantially 
similar technology.
    (c) Use of Existing Authority.--When considering, proposing, 
adopting, or engaging in any rule or program or developing new rules or 
programs, including those mandated or authorized under this Act, or any 
amendment made by this Act, the activities of the Commission (which may 
include the solicitation of data and other input from investors, 
regulated entities, and market participants or the representatives of 
any of those persons) shall be considered actions taken under 
subsection (e) of section 19 of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 
77s) and shall be subject to subsection (f) of that section.
    (d) Continued Applicability of State Consumer Protection Laws.--
Except as expressly provided by this Act, or an amendment made by this 
Act, nothing in this Act (or in any such amendment) shall preempt any 
State consumer protection law, including common law, or a remedy 
available under any such law.
    (e) Preemption for Exemptions and Digital Asset Activities Under 
the Securities Act.--Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 
U.S.C. 77r) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (3)--
                            (i) in the paragraph heading, by inserting 
                        ``in qualified transactions or'' after 
                        ``sales'';
                            (ii) in the first sentence, by inserting 
                        ``in a qualified transaction or'' after ``the 
                        security''; and
                            (iii) in the second sentence--
                                    (I) by striking ``term `qualified 
                                purchaser''' and inserting ``terms 
                                `qualified transaction' and `qualified 
                                purchaser''';
                                    (II) by inserting ``and categories 
                                of transactions, including secondary 
                                transactions,'' after ``securities''; 
                                and
                                    (III) by inserting ``and with due 
                                regard to the facilitation of capital 
                                formation and the promotion of 
                                innovation'' before the period at the 
                                end; and
                    (B) in paragraph (4)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``or, 
                        if the issuer is not required to file such 
                        reports, where the Commission otherwise 
                        determines, consistent with the public interest 
                        and the protection of investors and with due 
                        regard to the facilitation of capital formation 
                        and the promotion of innovation'' before the 
                        semicolon at the end;
                            (ii) in subparagraph (D)(ii), by inserting 
                        ``in a qualified transaction or'' after 
                        ``offered or sold'';
                            (iii) in subparagraph (F), by striking 
                        ``or'' at the end;
                            (iv) in subparagraph (G), by striking the 
                        period at the end and inserting ``; or''; and
                            (v) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(H) Commission rules or regulations issued under 
                section 28, except that this subparagraph does not 
                apply to rules or regulations adopted before the date 
                of enactment of this subparagraph.''.
    (f) Exempting Network Tokens From State Securities Laws.--
            (1) In general.--Section 18(b) of the Securities Act of 
        1933 (15 U.S.C. 77r(b)) is amended by adding at the end the 
        following:
            ``(5) Exemption in connection with network tokens.--A 
        network token, as defined in section 4B(a), shall be treated as 
        a covered security.''.
            (2) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this section, section 
        4B of the Securities Act of 1933 (as added by this Act), or the 
        amendments made by this section may be construed to limit the 
        authority (as of the day before the date of enactment of this 
        Act) described in section 18(c)(1) of the Securities Act of 
        1933 (15 U.S.C. 77r(c)(1)) of a securities commission (or any 
        agency or office performing like functions) of any State with 
        respect to a covered security or any security.
    (g) Preemption for Ancillary Asset Activities Under the Securities 
Act of 1933.--Section 18(b) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 
77r(b)), as amended by subsection (f) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
            ``(6) Limitations on state law regarding ancillary 
        assets.--
                    ``(A) Definitions.--In this paragraph, the term 
                `ancillary asset' has the meaning given the term in 
                section 4B(a).
                    ``(B) Exemption in connection with ancillary 
                assets.--An ancillary asset offered, sold, or 
                distributed in reliance on Regulation Crypto, as 
                adopted under section 103 of the Lummis-Gillibrand 
                Responsible Financial Innovation Act of 2026, shall be 
                treated as a covered security.''.
    (h) Preservation of Regulation Best Interest.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), nothing in this 
        Act, any amendment made by this Act, or any rule issued under 
        this Act or pursuant to any such amendment may be construed to 
        limit, preempt, or otherwise affect the obligations of a broker 
        or dealer registered with the Commission under section 15 of 
        the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o) or section 
        240.15l-1 of title 17, Code of Federal Regulations (commonly 
        known as ``Regulation Best Interest''), or any successor 
        regulation.
            (2) Application.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply with 
        respect to any person registered with the Commodity Futures 
        Trading Commission.
    (i) Preservation of Investment Adviser Fiduciary Duties.--Nothing 
in this Act, any amendment made by this Act, or any rule issued under 
this Act or pursuant to any such amendment may be construed to limit, 
preempt, or otherwise affect the fiduciary duty that an investment 
adviser (as defined in section 202 of the Investment Advisers Act of 
1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-2)) owes to a client under section 206 of the 
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-6) or any other 
provision of Federal or State law, including in connection with 
investment advice regarding a digital commodity.

SEC. 109. INSIDER TRADING WITH RESPECT TO ANCILLARY ASSET TRANSACTIONS.

    (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``distributed ledger 
control person'' has the meaning given the term in section 104(a).
    (b) Application of Securities Laws.--Any provision of the 
securities laws, or any regulation issued under the securities laws, 
including any duty that arises under the securities laws or under such 
a regulation, that applies with respect to a person that purchases, 
sells, or offers to sell a security, security-based swap, or security-
based swap agreement while in possession of material nonpublic 
information, or communicates such information in connection with or in 
the transaction, shall apply to any offer, sale, or purchase of a 
security, security-based swap, or security-based swap agreement in 
which an ancillary asset is offered, sold, or purchased, including any 
offer, sale, or purchase conducted pursuant to Regulation Crypto, as 
adopted pursuant to section 103, whether conducted by an ancillary 
asset originator, a related person, or any other person.
    (c) Rulemaking.--
            (1) In general.--The Commission shall adopt rules to 
        implement subsection (b), which shall--
                    (A) include rules providing an affirmative defense 
                for an offer, sale, or purchase of an ancillary asset 
                made pursuant to a written plan adopted before the 
                applicable person became aware of material nonpublic 
                information, which shall be consistent with section 
                240.10b5-1 of title 17, Code of Federal Regulations, or 
                any successor regulation; and
                    (B) be interpreted and applied in a manner that is 
                consistent with, and may not be construed to expand or 
                contract, the principles of, and judicial precedent 
                interpreting (by the Supreme Court of the United 
                States), the securities laws and the regulations issued 
                under the securities laws, as those principles and that 
                judicial precedent are in effect, as of the day before 
                the date of enactment of this Act.
            (2) Considerations.--In adopting rules under paragraph (1), 
        the Commission shall consider, subject to subsection (e), 
        whether, and under what circumstances, an offer, sale, 
        purchase, or communication should be addressed by those rules, 
        including by--
                    (A) a distributed ledger control person, any person 
                acting on behalf of, or in concert with, an ancillary 
                asset originator, related person, or distributed ledger 
                control person, or a person that obtained material 
                nonpublic information in the course of a relationship 
                of trust and confidence with an ancillary asset 
                originator or related person, where material nonpublic 
                information regarding an ancillary asset originator or 
                an ancillary asset was--
                            (i) obtained pursuant to or in breach of a 
                        duty of trust or confidence;
                            (ii) deceptively obtained through theft, 
                        bribery, misrepresentation, or espionage or in 
                        violation of any Federal law protecting 
                        computer data; or
                            (iii) obtained from an ancillary asset 
                        originator or related person, the conduct of 
                        which is described in subparagraph (B); or
                    (B) an ancillary asset originator or related person 
                that purchases, sells, or otherwise distributes an 
                ancillary asset, or communicates material nonpublic 
                information regarding an ancillary asset originator or 
                ancillary asset, while aware of material nonpublic 
                information that is required to be disclosed in any 
                disclosure furnished, or required to be furnished, 
                under section 4B of the Securities Act of 1933, as 
                added by this Act, or Regulation Crypto, as adopted 
                pursuant to section 103.
    (d) Enforcement.--A violation of subsection (b), or any rule 
adopted under subsection (c), shall be treated as a violation of the 
securities laws and subject to the penalties under sections 21A and 32 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78u-1, 78ff) and to 
all other remedies available under the securities laws.
    (e) Rule of Construction.--Consistent with section 4B(b)(3) of the 
Securities Act of 1933, as added by this Act, nothing in this section 
may be construed to apply the securities laws, or any regulation issued 
under the securities laws (including any rule adopted under subsection 
(c)), to any secondary market transaction in an ancillary asset that is 
not otherwise a transaction in a security, security-based swap, or 
security-based swap agreement.

SEC. 110. SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION CORPORATION APPLICABILITY.

    Section 16(14) of the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 
(15 U.S.C. 78lll(14)) is amended by inserting after the second sentence 
the following: ``The term `security' does not include a digital 
commodity.''.

SEC. 111. INVESTOR AND CONSUMER PROTECTION ENFORCEMENT.

    (a) Preservation of Certain Rights, Authorities, Laws, and 
Obligations.--Subject to subsection (b), nothing in this Act, any 
amendment made by this Act, or any rule, requirement, or regulation 
promulgated pursuant to this Act may be construed to prohibit, limit, 
impair, or otherwise affect--
            (1) any person from bringing a civil action to enforce any 
        private right of action for fraud, deceit, manipulation, or 
        deceptive practices, to the extent that such private right of 
        action is expressly provided for in this Act or an amendment 
        made by this Act, or is otherwise available under Federal law, 
        including with respect to conduct involving an ancillary asset, 
        network token, digital commodity, or any transaction, 
        disclosure, certification, notice, report, statement, 
        communication, or other document involving any such asset;
            (2) except as expressly provided in this Act or an 
        amendment made by this Act, any Federal or State regulator, 
        acting within the scope of authority otherwise provided by law, 
        from bringing an administrative or civil enforcement action 
        under--
                    (A) the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et 
                seq.), including the provisions of that Act that are 
                added by this Act and relate to digital commodities and 
                the jurisdiction of the Commodity Futures Trading 
                Commission;
                    (B) the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a et 
                seq.), as amended by this Act, the Securities Exchange 
                Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), as amended by this 
                Act, or the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 
                80b-1 et seq.);
                    (C) State commodities laws, subject to the 
                provisions of this Act, and the amendments made by this 
                Act, relating to the jurisdiction of the Commodity 
                Futures Trading Commission; or
                    (D) section 18(c)(1) of the Securities Act of 1933 
                (15 U.S.C. 77r(c)(1)), or any functionally equivalent 
                anti-fraud or anti-manipulation provision of State 
                securities law (including any State securities law with 
                respect to a security or a transaction in a security to 
                the extent enforcement of that anti-fraud or anti-
                manipulation provision of State securities law is not 
                preempted by section 18 of the Securities Act of 1933 
                (15 U.S.C. 77r)), with respect to an investment 
                contract involving an ancillary asset, or other 
                transaction involving any such asset, for which this 
                Act or an amendment made by this Act expressly 
                preserves or provides for the application of anti-fraud 
                or anti-manipulation authority;
            (3) except as expressly provided in this Act or an 
        amendment made by this Act, any generally applicable State law, 
        including a law relating to fraud, deceit, unfair or deceptive 
        acts or practices, consumer protection, banking, payments, 
        property, contracts, criminal law, or unlawful conduct or 
        practices, or the remedies available under any such law, with 
        respect to conduct involving a digital asset, ancillary asset, 
        network token, or digital commodity, or any transaction, 
        activity, person, or service involving any such asset, provided 
        that such law does not impose any licensing, registration, 
        qualification, or other requirement that is expressly 
        preempted, or otherwise expressly limited, by this Act or an 
        amendment made by this Act;
            (4) the fiduciary obligations of an investment adviser, as 
        defined in section 202(a) of the Investment Advisers Act of 
        1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)), under section 206 of that Act (15 
        U.S.C. 80b-6), any rule or regulation issued under such section 
        206, or any other provision of Federal or State law, including 
        in connection with investment advice regarding a digital asset, 
        ancillary asset, network token, digital commodity, or 
        substantially similar technology; or
            (5) any right or remedy under Federal consumer financial 
        law, including under section 1011 of the Consumer Financial 
        Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5491) or the Federal Trade 
        Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.), or authority under 
        Federal consumer financial law with respect to any person, 
        subject to the limitations under section 1027 of the Consumer 
        Financial Protection Act of 2010 (12 U.S.C. 5517), including 
        subsections (i) and (j) of such section 1027.
    (b) Limitations and Rules of Construction.--Nothing in subsection 
(a) may be construed to--
            (1) preserve, create, or authorize any Federal or State 
        registration, licensing, qualification, or merit-review 
        requirement under State law with respect to an ancillary asset, 
        network token, digital commodity, transaction, person, or 
        activity, to the extent that such requirement is preempted or 
        otherwise limited by this Act or an amendment made by this Act;
            (2) create, preserve, or authorize any private right of 
        action under Federal or State law with respect to an ancillary 
        asset, network token, digital commodity, or transaction 
        involving any such asset;
            (3) permit any claim, action, proceeding, requirement, 
        liability, obligation, or remedy to be brought, maintained, 
        imposed, or enforced under Federal or State securities or 
        commodities law to the extent that such claim, action, 
        proceeding, requirement, liability, obligation, or remedy 
        depends upon, is predicated on, or would require a 
        determination that an ancillary asset, network token, digital 
        commodity, or any transaction, activity, person, or service 
        involving any such asset has a status or characterization under 
        Federal or State securities or commodities law that is contrary 
        to an express classification or treatment provided by this Act 
        or an amendment made by this Act;
            (4) expand, contract, or otherwise alter the jurisdiction, 
        exclusive or otherwise, of the Commission, the Commodity 
        Futures Trading Commission, or any State regulator;
            (5) limit, impair, or otherwise affect the treatment of any 
        asset, transaction, or interest as a covered security for 
        purposes of section 18 of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 
        77r); or
            (6) create any new private right of action under Federal or 
        State law, except that nothing in this paragraph may be 
        construed to limit, impair, or otherwise affect any private 
        right of action preserved under subsection (a)(1), expressly 
        provided in this Act or an amendment made by this Act, or 
        otherwise available under Federal law.

              TITLE II--PROTECTING AGAINST ILLICIT FINANCE

SEC. 201. TREATMENT UNDER THE BANK SECRECY ACT AND SANCTIONS LAWS.

    (a) Amendment.--Section 5312(c)(1)(A) of title 31, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``digital commodity broker, digital 
        commodity dealer,'' after ``futures commission merchant,''; and
            (2) by inserting before the period the following: ``and any 
        digital commodity exchange registered, or required to register, 
        under that Act that permits direct customer access''.
    (b) Bank Secrecy Act Requirements.--
            (1) Regulations.--The Secretary of the Treasury, acting 
        through the Director of the Financial Crimes Enforcement 
        Network, and in consultation with the Commodity Futures Trading 
        Commission, shall issue requirements consistent with the 
        requirements of futures commission merchants to apply the Bank 
        Secrecy Act to digital commodity brokers, digital commodity 
        dealers, and digital commodity exchanges that are tailored to 
        the size and complexity of such entities, including by 
        requiring each such entity to--
                    (A) establish and maintain an anti-money laundering 
                and countering the financing of terrorism program, 
                which shall include--
                            (i) an appropriate risk assessment;
                            (ii) the development of internal policies, 
                        procedures, and controls;
                            (iii) the designation of a compliance 
                        officer;
                            (iv) an ongoing employee training program; 
                        and
                            (v) an independent audit function to test 
                        such program;
                    (B) retain appropriate records of transactions;
                    (C) monitor and report suspicious activity, which 
                may include use of appropriate distributed ledger 
                analytics; and
                    (D) maintain an effective customer identification 
                program to identify and verify account holders and 
                carry out appropriate customer due diligence.
            (2) Compliance with sanctions.--A digital commodity broker, 
        digital commodity dealer, or digital commodity exchange shall 
        comply with all laws and regulations related to United States 
        sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control.
    (c) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that nothing in 
this section shall limit the applicability of any law imposing or 
authorizing the imposition of economic sanctions by the United States.

SEC. 202. DIGITAL ASSET EXAMINATION STANDARDS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Federal functional regulator.--The term ``Federal 
        functional regulator'' has the meaning given the term in 
        section 509 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. 6809).
            (2) Financial institution.--The term ``financial 
        institution'' has the meaning given the term in section 
        5312(a)(2) of title 31, United States Code.
    (b) Examination and Review.--The Secretary of the Treasury, in 
consultation with Federal functional regulators, shall establish, 
coordinated to the extent feasible, risk-based examination standards to 
assess financial institutions involved in the digital asset sector for 
compliance with anti-money laundering and countering the financing of 
terrorism requirements under the Bank Secrecy Act.

SEC. 203. PREVENTING ILLICIT FINANCE THROUGH PARTNERSHIP ACT.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Preventing 
Illicit Finance Through Partnership Act''.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Bank.--The term ``bank'' has the meaning given the term 
        in section 1010.100 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations 
        (or any corresponding similar regulation).
            (2) Certified or recognized information-sharing or 
        interdiction network.--The term ``certified or recognized 
        information-sharing or interdiction network'' means a real-
        time, secure, public-private mechanism that--
                    (A) facilitates the detection, interdiction, and 
                prevention of illicit finance violations through rapid 
                information exchange between government and regulated 
                entities; and
                    (B) is--
                            (i) certified by the Secretary of the 
                        Treasury for the purpose of supporting 
                        interdiction and investigative actions 
                        consistent with law enforcement or regulatory 
                        authorities; or
                            (ii) recognized by the Secretary of the 
                        Treasury as an existing (as of the day before 
                        the date of enactment of this Act), effective 
                        public-private partnership network that meets 
                        standards for security, accountability, and 
                        participation that are equivalent to the 
                        standards that would be required by the 
                        Secretary of the Treasury for certification 
                        under clause (i).
            (3) Covered agency.--The term ``covered agency'' means--
                    (A) the Department of Justice, including the 
                Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Drug 
                Enforcement Administration;
                    (B) the Department of the Treasury, including the 
                Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, the Internal 
                Revenue Service, and the Office of Foreign Assets 
                Control; and
                    (C) the Department of Homeland Security.
            (4) Designated private sector entity.--The term 
        ``designated private sector entity'' means a private sector 
        entity designated under subsection (d).
            (5) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
        the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.
            (6) Illicit finance violation.--The term ``illicit finance 
        violation'' means the illicit use of digital assets.
            (7) Illicit use.--The term ``illicit use'' includes fraud, 
        money laundering, terrorist financing, the purchase and sale of 
        illicit goods, trafficking of fentanyl (including fentanyl 
        precursors and trade in other illicit drugs), sanctions 
        evasion, theft of funds, funding of illegal activities, 
        transactions relating to child sexual abuse material or elder 
        fraud abuse, and any other financial transaction involving the 
        proceeds of specified unlawful activity, as defined in section 
        1956(c) of title 18, United States Code.
            (8) Money services business.--The term ``money services 
        business'' has the meaning given the term in section 1010.100 
        of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations (or any corresponding 
        similar regulation).
    (c) Establishment of Program.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
establish a pilot program under which covered agencies and designated 
private sector entities securely share information focused on potential 
illicit finance violations and threats and emerging risks relating to 
illicit finance violations.
    (d) Designation of Private Sector Entities.--
            (1) Required action.--
                    (A) Initial companies.--Not later than 90 days 
                after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director 
                and the Secretary shall designate 10 private sector 
                entities that are money services businesses, 10 private 
                sector entities that are digital commodity brokers, 
                digital commodity dealers, or digital commodity 
                exchanges, and 10 private sector entities that are 
                banks to participate in the pilot program established 
                under subsection (c), if such entities agree and 
                volunteer to participate in the program.
                    (B) Biannual review.--Not less frequently than once 
                every 6 months, the Director shall review and, as 
                appropriate, replace the private sector entities 
                designated under this paragraph.
                    (C) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this section 
                may be construed as--
                            (i) requiring an entity to participate in 
                        the pilot program established under this 
                        section; or
                            (ii) enabling the Director to select an 
                        entity to participate in the pilot program 
                        without the consent of such entity.
            (2) Optional designation.--In addition to the 30 private 
        sector entities designated under paragraph (1), the Director 
        may designate--
                    (A) 1 or more information sharing and analysis 
                centers to participate in the pilot program;
                    (B) 1 or more participants in a certified or 
                recognized information sharing or interdiction network; 
                or
                    (C) 1 or more private sector entities, as 
                appropriate, relating to a particular type of illicit 
                activity.
    (e) Information Sharing With Private Sector Entities.--A covered 
agency that initiates an investigation into a potential illicit finance 
violation, or identifies a threat or emerging risk relating to an 
illicit finance violation, may share with any designated private sector 
entity such information about the investigation, threat, or emerging 
risk as the covered agency determines is appropriate.
    (f) Use of Information by Private Sector Entities.--Information 
received by a designated private sector entity under this section may 
not be used for any purpose other than identifying and reporting on 
activities that may involve illicit finance violations or threats and 
emerging risks relating to illicit finance violations, unless otherwise 
prescribed by regulation or permitted by the covered agency sharing the 
information.
    (g) Means of Sharing Information.--The covered agencies and 
designated private sector entities may share information about 
potential illicit finance violations, or threats and emerging risks 
relating to illicit finance violations, with each other--
            (1) through a portal established by the Secretary of the 
        Treasury or a similar mechanism determined appropriate by the 
        Secretary of the Treasury;
            (2) through secure email;
            (3) at monthly meetings, which shall be facilitated by the 
        Secretary of the Treasury; or
            (4) through a certified or recognized information-sharing 
        or interdiction network.
    (h) Limitation on Liability.--A designated private sector entity 
that transmits, receives, or shares information for the purposes of 
identifying and reporting activities that may constitute illicit 
finance violations, or threats and emerging risks relating to illicit 
finance violations, shall not be liable to any person for such 
disclosure or for any failure to provide notice of such disclosure to 
the person who is the subject of such disclosure or any other person 
identified in such disclosure.
    (i) Sunset.--The pilot program established under subsection (c) 
shall terminate on the date that is 5 years after the date of enactment 
of this Act, unless made permanent through notice and comment 
rulemaking by the Department of the Treasury.

SEC. 204. FINANCIAL TECHNOLOGY PROTECTION ACT.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Financial 
Technology Protection Act''.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
                Affairs of the Senate;
                    (B) the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
                Forestry of the Senate;
                    (C) the Committee on Financial Services of the 
                House of Representatives; and
                    (D) the Committee on Agriculture of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) Distributed ledger analytics company.--The term 
        ``distributed ledger analytics company'' means any business 
        providing software, research, or other services (such as 
        tracing tools, geofencing, transaction screening, the 
        collection of business data, and sanctions screening) that--
                    (A) support private and public sector 
                investigations and risk management activities; and
                    (B) involve cryptographically secured distributed 
                ledgers or any similar technology or implementation.
            (3) Emerging technologies.--The term ``emerging 
        technologies'' means the critical and emerging technology areas 
        listed in the Critical and Emerging Technologies List developed 
        by the Fast Track Action Subcommittee on Critical and Emerging 
        Technologies of the National Science and Technology Council, 
        including any updates to such list.
            (4) Foreign terrorist organization.--The term ``foreign 
        terrorist organization'' means an organization that is 
        designated as a foreign terrorist organization under section 
        219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).
            (5) Illicit use.--The term ``illicit use'' includes fraud, 
        money laundering, terrorist financing, the purchase and sale of 
        illicit goods, trafficking of fentanyl (including fentanyl 
        precursors and trade in other illicit drugs), sanctions 
        evasion, theft of funds, funding of illegal activities, 
        transactions related to child sexual abuse material or elder 
        fraud abuse, and any other financial transaction involving the 
        proceeds of specified unlawful activity (as defined in section 
        1956(c) of title 18, United States Code).
            (6) State sponsor of terrorism.--The term ``state sponsor 
        of terrorism'' means a country determined by the Secretary of 
        State to have repeatedly provided support for acts of 
        international terrorism under section 40 of the Arms Export 
        Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2780) or section 620A of the Foreign 
        Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2371).
            (7) Terrorist.--The term ``terrorist'' includes a person 
        carrying out domestic terrorism or international terrorism (as 
        such terms are defined, respectively, under section 2331 of 
        title 18, United States Code).
            (8) Transnational organized crime.--The term 
        ``transnational organized crime'' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 284 of title 10, United States Code.
    (c) Independent Financial Technology Working Group to Combat 
Terrorism, Narcotics Trafficking, and Illicit Financing.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established the Independent 
        Financial Technology Working Group to Combat Terrorism, 
        Narcotics Trafficking, and Illicit Financing (in this section 
        referred to as the ``Working Group'' ), which shall consist of 
        the following:
                    (A) The Secretary of the Treasury or their 
                designee, who shall serve as the chair of the Working 
                Group.
                    (B) A senior-level representative from each of the 
                following:
                            (i) The Department of the Treasury.
                            (ii) The Office of Terrorism and Financial 
                        Intelligence.
                            (iii) The Internal Revenue Service.
                            (iv) The Department of Justice.
                            (v) The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
                            (vi) The Drug Enforcement Administration.
                            (vii) The Department of Homeland Security.
                            (viii) The United States Secret Service.
                            (ix) The Department of State.
                            (x) The Office of the Director of National 
                        Intelligence.
                    (C) At least 5 individuals appointed by the 
                Secretary of the Treasury to represent the following:
                            (i) Digital asset companies.
                            (ii) Distributed ledger analytics 
                        companies.
                            (iii) Financial institutions.
                            (iv) Institutions or organizations engaged 
                        in research.
                            (v) Institutions or organizations focused 
                        on individual privacy and civil liberties.
                    (D) Such additional individuals as the Secretary of 
                the Treasury may appoint as necessary to accomplish the 
                duties described in paragraph (2).
            (2) Duties.--The Working Group shall--
                    (A) conduct research on the illicit use of digital 
                assets and other related emerging technologies, 
                including by terrorists, foreign terrorist 
                organizations, state sponsors of terrorism, and 
                transnational organized crime groups; and
                    (B) develop legislative and regulatory proposals to 
                improve anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist, and 
                other counter-illicit financing efforts in the United 
                States.
            (3) Reports.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, and annually for the 3 
                years thereafter, the Working Group shall submit to the 
                Secretary of the Treasury, the heads of each agency 
                represented in the Working Group pursuant to paragraph 
                (1)(B), and the appropriate congressional committees a 
                report containing the findings and determinations made 
                by the Working Group in the previous year and any 
                legislative and regulatory proposals developed by the 
                Working Group.
                    (B) Final report.--Before the date on which the 
                Working Group terminates under paragraph (4)(A), the 
                Working Group shall submit to the appropriate 
                congressional committees a final report detailing the 
                findings, recommendations, and activities of the 
                Working Group, including any final results from the 
                research conducted by the Working Group.
            (4) Sunset.--
                    (A) In general.--The Working Group shall terminate 
                on the later of--
                            (i) the date that is 4 years after the date 
                        of enactment of this Act; or
                            (ii) the date on which the Working Group 
                        completes any wind-up activities described in 
                        subparagraph (B).
                    (B) Authority to wind up activities.--If there are 
                research, proposals, or other related activities of the 
                Working Group ongoing as of the date that is 4 years 
                after the date of enactment of this Act, the Working 
                Group may temporarily continue working in order to wind 
                up such activities.
                    (C) Return of appropriated funds.--On the date on 
                which the Working Group terminates under subparagraph 
                (A), any unobligated funds appropriated to carry out 
                this subsection shall be transferred to the Treasury.

SEC. 205. DIGITAL ASSET KIOSKS.

    (a) Registration.--Section 5330 of title 31, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)(A), by inserting ``, any 
                person who owns, operates, or manages a digital asset 
                kiosk in the United States or its territories,'' after 
                ``similar instruments''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Digital asset; digital asset address; digital asset 
        kiosk; digital asset kiosk operator.--The terms `digital 
        asset', `digital asset address', `digital asset kiosk', and 
        `digital asset kiosk operator' have the meanings given those 
        terms, respectively, in section 5337.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(f) Registration of Digital Asset Kiosk Locations.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the 
        effective date of this subsection, and not less than once every 
        90 days thereafter, the Secretary of the Treasury shall require 
        digital asset kiosk operators to submit an updated list 
        containing the physical address of each digital asset kiosk 
        owned or operated by the digital asset kiosk operator.
            ``(2) Form and manner of registration.--Each submission by 
        a digital asset kiosk operator pursuant to paragraph (1) shall 
        include--
                    ``(A) the legal name of the digital asset kiosk 
                operator;
                    ``(B) any fictitious or trade name of the digital 
                asset kiosk operator;
                    ``(C) the physical address of each digital asset 
                kiosk owned, operated, or managed by the digital asset 
                kiosk operator that is located in the United States or 
                the territories of the United States;
                    ``(D) the start date of operation of each digital 
                asset kiosk;
                    ``(E) the end date of operation of each digital 
                asset kiosk, if applicable; and
                    ``(F) each digital asset address used by the 
                digital asset kiosk operator.
            ``(3) False and incomplete information.--The filing of 
        false or materially incomplete information in a submission 
        required under paragraph (1) shall be deemed a failure to 
        comply with the requirements of this subsection.''.
    (b) Preventing Fraudulent Transactions at Digital Asset Kiosks.--
            (1) In general.--Subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31, 
        United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
        following:
``Sec. 5337. Digital asset kiosk fraud prevention
    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Customer.--The term `customer' means any person that 
        purchases or sells digital assets through a digital asset 
        kiosk.
            ``(2) Distributed ledger analytics.--The term `distributed 
        ledger analytics' means the analysis of data from public 
        distributed ledgers, and associated transaction information, to 
        provide risk-specific information about digital asset 
        transactions and digital asset addresses.
            ``(3) Digital asset.--The term `digital asset' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 2 of the GENIUS Act (12 
        U.S.C. 5901).
            ``(4) Digital asset address.--The term `digital asset 
        address' means an alphanumeric identifier associated with a 
        digital asset wallet identifying the location to which a 
        digital asset purchased through a digital asset kiosk can be 
        sent or from which a digital asset sold through a digital asset 
        kiosk can be accessed.
            ``(5) Digital asset kiosk.--The term `digital asset kiosk' 
        means a stand-alone machine that is capable of accepting or 
        dispensing legal tender in exchange for digital assets.
            ``(6) Digital asset kiosk operator.--The term `digital 
        asset kiosk operator' means a person who owns, operates, or 
        manages a digital asset kiosk located in the United States or 
        its territories.
            ``(7) Digital asset kiosk transaction.--The term `digital 
        asset kiosk transaction' means the purchase or sale of digital 
        assets via a digital asset kiosk.
            ``(8) Digital asset wallet.--The term `digital asset 
        wallet' means a software application or other mechanism 
        providing a means for holding, storing, and transferring 
        digital assets.
            ``(9) FinCEN.--The term `FinCEN' means the Financial Crimes 
        Enforcement Network of the Department of the Treasury.
            ``(10) New customer.--The term `new customer,' with respect 
        to a digital asset kiosk operator, means a customer during the 
        14-day period beginning on the date of the first digital asset 
        kiosk transaction of the customer with the digital asset kiosk 
        operator.
            ``(11) Transaction hash.--The term `transaction hash' means 
        a unique identifier made up of a string of characters that act 
        as a record of and provide proof that a transaction was 
        verified and added to the distributed ledger.
    ``(b) Disclosures.--
            ``(1) In general.--Before entering into a digital asset 
        transaction with a customer, a digital asset kiosk operator 
        shall disclose in a clear, conspicuous, and easily readable 
        manner--
                    ``(A) all relevant terms and conditions of the 
                digital asset kiosk transaction, including--
                            ``(i) the amount of the digital asset kiosk 
                        transaction;
                            ``(ii) the type and nature of the digital 
                        asset kiosk transaction;
                            ``(iii) a warning that the digital asset 
                        kiosk transaction is final, is not refundable, 
                        and may not be reversed; and
                            ``(iv) the type and amount of any fees or 
                        other expenses paid by the customer;
                    ``(B) a warning relating to consumer fraud 
                including--
                            ``(i) that consumer fraud often starts with 
                        contact from a stranger, and that the customer 
                        should never send money to someone the customer 
                        does not know;
                            ``(ii) the most common types of fraudulent 
                        schemes involving digital asset kiosks, such 
                        as--
                                    ``(I) impersonation of a government 
                                official or a bank representative;
                                    ``(II) threats of jail time or 
                                financial penalties;
                                    ``(III) offers of a job or reward 
                                in exchange for payment, or offers of 
                                deals that seem too good to be true;
                                    ``(IV) claims of a frozen bank 
                                account or credit card;
                                    ``(V) requests for donations to 
                                charity or disaster relief; or
                                    ``(VI) payment to an individual the 
                                customer has never met; and
                            ``(iii) a statement that the customer 
                        should contact law enforcement if they suspect 
                        fraudulent activity, such as scams, including 
                        contact information for a relevant law 
                        enforcement or government agency.
            ``(2) Additional disclosures.--FinCEN may adopt rules 
        relating to additional disclosures required to be made to 
        customers prior to engaging in a transaction.
    ``(c) Acknowledgment of Disclosures.--Each time a customer uses a 
digital asset kiosk, the digital asset kiosk operator shall ensure 
acknowledgment of all disclosures required under subsection (b) via 
confirmation of consent of the customer at the digital asset kiosk.
    ``(d) Receipts.--Upon completion of each digital asset kiosk 
transaction, the digital asset kiosk operator shall provide the 
customer with a receipt, which shall include the following information:
            ``(1) The name and contact information of the digital asset 
        kiosk operator, including a telephone number for a customer 
        service helpline.
            ``(2) The name of the customer.
            ``(3) The type, value, date, and precise time of the 
        digital asset kiosk transaction, transaction hash, and each 
        applicable digital asset address.
            ``(4) The amount of the digital asset kiosk transaction 
        expressed in United States dollars.
            ``(5) All fees charged.
            ``(6) A statement that the customer should contact law 
        enforcement if they suspect fraudulent activity, such as scams, 
        including contact information for a relevant law enforcement or 
        government agency.
            ``(7) The exchange rate applied.
            ``(8) Any additional information the digital asset kiosk 
        operator determines appropriate.
    ``(e) Physical Receipts Available.--A physical version of the 
receipt required under subsection (d) shall be issued to the customer 
at the time of the digital asset kiosk transaction, if the customer 
opts for such a physical version of the receipt.
    ``(f) Anti-Fraud Policy.--
            ``(1) In general.--Each digital asset kiosk operator shall 
        establish, maintain, and implement a written anti-fraud policy 
        if required by, and consistent with, applicable State law in 
        those States where the digital asset kiosk operator is 
        licensed.
            ``(2) Federal standard.--A digital asset kiosk operator 
        operating in any State that does not require an anti-fraud 
        policy under paragraph (1) shall establish, maintain, and 
        implement an anti-fraud policy that, at a minimum, includes--
                    ``(A) the identification and assessment of fraud-
                related areas;
                    ``(B) procedures and controls to protect against 
                risks identified under subparagraph (A);
                    ``(C) allocation of responsibility for monitoring 
                the risks identified under subparagraph (A); and
                    ``(D) procedures for the periodic evaluation and 
                revision of the anti fraud procedures, controls, and 
                monitoring mechanisms under subparagraphs (B) and (C).
    ``(g) Appointment of Compliance Officer.--Each digital asset kiosk 
operator shall designate and employ a compliance officer who--
            ``(1) is qualified to coordinate and monitor compliance 
        with this section and all other applicable Federal and State 
        laws, rules, and regulations;
            ``(2) is employed full-time by the digital asset kiosk 
        operator;
            ``(3) is not the chief executive officer of the digital 
        asset kiosk operator; and
            ``(4) does not own or control more than 10 percent of any 
        interest in the digital asset kiosk operator.
    ``(h) Use of Distributed Ledger Analytics and Wallet Pinning.--
            ``(1) In general.--Each digital asset kiosk operator shall 
        use distributed ledger analytics to prevent sending a digital 
        asset to a digital asset wallet known to be affiliated with 
        fraudulent activity at the time of a digital asset kiosk 
        transaction and to detect transaction patterns indicative of 
        fraud or other illicit activities.
            ``(2) Wallet pinning.--Each digital asset kiosk operator 
        shall maintain restrictions that prevent more than 1 customer 
        of the digital asset kiosk operator from using the same digital 
        wallet address.
            ``(3) Compliance.--The Director of FinCEN may request 
        evidence from any digital asset kiosk operator to confirm 
        compliance with this subsection.
    ``(i) Confirmation Required Before New Customer Transactions.--
Before entering into a digital asset kiosk transaction valued at $500 
or more with a new customer, the digital asset kiosk operator shall 
obtain confirmation from the new customer that--
            ``(1) the new customer wishes to proceed with the digital 
        asset kiosk transaction; and
            ``(2) the new customer is not being fraudulently induced 
        into engaging in the transaction.
    ``(j) Holding Period.--No digital asset kiosk operator shall 
execute a transaction on behalf of a new customer that sends digital 
assets to a specific wallet address unless at least 72 hours have 
elapsed since the initiation of the transaction by the new customer.
    ``(k) Transaction Limits With Respect to New Customers.--The 
Secretary of the Treasury shall prescribe by regulation the threshold 
amounts for reporting or limiting digital asset kiosk transactions, 
including aggregate or single-day deposit and withdrawal limits, as the 
Secretary determines are reasonably necessary to deter fraud and 
illicit finance. Such regulations shall consider the unique risks and 
functionalities of digital asset kiosks and may provide for exceptions, 
adjustments, or exclusions as deemed appropriate by the Secretary.
    ``(l) Interim Transaction Limits.--Until the effective date of 
regulations prescribed under subsection (k), a digital asset kiosk 
operator shall not permit a new customer to conduct transactions 
exceeding $3,500 in the aggregate within any 24-hour period.
    ``(m) Refunds.--A digital asset kiosk operator shall issue a refund 
for a customer's transaction fees within 30 days if--
            ``(1) the customer was fraudulently induced into engaging 
        in the digital asset kiosk transaction; and
            ``(2) the customer files a complaint to the digital asset 
        kiosk operator, which includes--
                    ``(A) the name, address, and phone number of the 
                customer;
                    ``(B) the transaction hash of the digital asset 
                kiosk transaction or information sufficient to 
                establish the type, value, date, and time of the 
                digital asset kiosk transaction; and
                    ``(C) a copy of a report to a State or local law 
                enforcement or government agency made not later than 30 
                days after the digital asset kiosk transaction.
    ``(n) Customer Service Helpline.--Each digital asset kiosk operator 
shall provide live customer service during business hours, the phone 
number for which is regularly monitored and displayed in a clear, 
conspicuous, and easily readable manner upon each digital asset kiosk. 
During non-business hours, the digital asset kiosk operator shall 
maintain an alternative customer service system that may include an 
automated chatbot, an online complaint reporting portal, or other 
customer service mechanism.
    ``(o) Communications With Law Enforcement.--Each digital asset 
kiosk operator performing business in the United States shall have a 
dedicated method of contact, such as a phone number, email address, or 
other contact method, for law enforcement and regulatory agencies to 
contact the digital asset kiosk operator. This contact method shall be 
displayed and available on the digital asset kiosk operator's website.
    ``(p) Civil Penalties and State Enforcement.--Any State regulator 
may bring a civil action or other appropriate proceeding to enforce the 
provisions of this section and may assess or collect civil penalties or 
other remedies for violations of this section, as provided under 
applicable State law.
    ``(q) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
construed to prohibit a State from enacting a law, rule, or regulation 
that provides greater protection to customers.''.
            (2) Technical and conforming amendment.--The table of 
        sections for subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31, United 
        States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

``5337. Digital asset kiosk fraud prevention.''.

SEC. 206. STUDY ON ILLICIT USE OF DIGITAL ASSETS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Foreign terrorist organization.--The term ``foreign 
        terrorist organization'' means an organization that is 
        designated as a foreign terrorist organization under section 
        219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).
            (2) Transnational organized criminal.--The term 
        ``transnational organized criminal'' means an individual who 
        participates in transnational organized crime, as defined in 
        section 284(i) of title 10, United States Code.
    (b) Review.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the 
Attorney General, shall conduct a comprehensive review of how foreign 
terrorist organizations and transnational organized criminals utilize 
digital assets in connection with illicit activities.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 180 days after completing the review 
under subsection (b), the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to the 
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee on 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
Agriculture and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
Representatives a report on the findings of the Secretary, including--
            (1) an assessment of how foreign terrorist organizations 
        and transnational organized criminals utilize digital assets in 
        connection with illicit activities; and
            (2) recommendations to assist the Commission and the 
        Commodity Futures Trading Commission in strengthening 
        compliance and enforcement of digital assets-related entities 
        registered with their respective agencies.
    (d) Additional Agencies.--The Secretary of the Treasury may, in the 
sole discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury, solicit input for the 
report required under subsection (c) from any or all of the Federal 
functional regulators, as defined in section 509 of the Gramm-Leach-
Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. 6809), and the Commodity Futures Trading 
Commission.
    (e) Classified Annex.--The report required under subsection (c) may 
include a classified annex, as appropriate.

       TITLE III--RESPONSIBLE INNOVATION IN DECENTRALIZED FINANCE

SEC. 301. RULEMAKING ON APPLICATION OF EXISTING SECURITIES INTERMEDIARY 
              REQUIREMENTS AND EXISTING BANK SECRECY ACT REQUIREMENTS 
              TO NON-DECENTRALIZED FINANCE TRADING PROTOCOLS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Decentralized finance trading protocol.--The term 
        ``decentralized finance trading protocol'' means a distributed 
        ledger system through which multiple participants can execute a 
        financial transaction--
                    (A) in accordance with an automated rule or 
                algorithm that is predetermined and non-discretionary; 
                and
                    (B) without reliance on a person other than the 
                user to maintain custody or control of any digital 
                assets subject to the financial transaction.
            (2) Non-decentralized finance trading protocol.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``non-decentralized 
                finance trading protocol'' means a decentralized 
                finance trading protocol that meets 1 or more of the 
                following:
                            (i) A person or group of persons under 
                        common control, or acting pursuant to an 
                        agreement, arrangement, or understanding to act 
                        in concert, has the authority, directly or 
                        indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, 
                        understanding, relationship, or otherwise, to 
                        control or materially alter the functionality, 
                        operation, or rules of consensus or agreement 
                        of the decentralized finance trading protocol.
                            (ii) The decentralized finance trading 
                        protocol does not operate, execute, and enforce 
                        its operations and transactions based solely on 
                        pre-established, transparent rules encoded 
                        directly within the source code of the 
                        distributed ledger system.
                            (iii) A person or group of persons under 
                        common control, or acting pursuant to an 
                        agreement, arrangement, or understanding to act 
                        in concert, has the authority, via operation of 
                        the decentralized finance trading protocol, to 
                        restrict, censor, or prohibit the use of the 
                        decentralized finance trading protocol, 
                        including any applicable system-based user 
                        activity.
                    (B) Special rule.--For purposes of subparagraph 
                (A), a decentralized governance system, solely by 
                virtue of the operation of the decentralized governance 
                system, shall not be considered to be a person or a 
                group of persons under common control or acting 
                pursuant to an agreement, arrangement, or understanding 
                to act in concert.
                    (C) Exclusions.--For purposes of this section, 
                participation in an incident-response or security 
                council, as described in subsection (f), shall not, by 
                itself, be deemed to constitute control of a non-
                decentralized finance trading protocol.
                    (D) Scoping.--In implementing this section, the 
                Commission and the Department of the Treasury shall 
                construe the term ``non-decentralized finance trading 
                protocol'' in a manner consistent with section 15H of 
                the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as added by 
                section 601.
    (b) Rules.--
            (1) In general.--The Commission, in consultation with the 
        Department of the Treasury, shall adopt tailored, clear, and 
        specific rules, after notice and comment, that clarify how a 
        person, or group of persons under common control, or acting 
        pursuant to an agreement, arrangement, or understanding to act 
        in concert, that controls a non-decentralized finance trading 
        protocol and is subject to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
        (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), as amended by this Act, shall comply 
        with applicable requirements under that Act, including with 
        respect to registration, conduct, disclosure, recordkeeping, 
        supervision, and other requirements under the securities laws.
            (2) Requirements.--The rulemaking required under paragraph 
        (1) shall--
                    (A) ensure that the rules adopted pursuant to that 
                rulemaking are consistent with the purposes of the 
                securities laws, including the public interest, the 
                protection of investors, and the maintenance of fair 
                and orderly markets;
                    (B) protect the rights of software developers, 
                publishers, and users to create, publish, and use code 
                and software in a manner consistent with the First 
                Amendment to the Constitution of the United States;
                    (C) provide legal clarity for the development, 
                publication, and operation of distributed ledger 
                systems and the components therein in a manner 
                consistent with the purposes of this section; and
                    (D) result in, by operation of law, the application 
                and enforcement by the Department of the Treasury, 
                where applicable and pursuant to existing law, as in 
                effect on the day before the date of enactment of this 
                Act, of anti-money laundering and countering the 
                financing of terrorism requirements under the Bank 
                Secrecy Act and other Federal law with respect to any 
                person or group of persons that the Commission 
                determines, through that rulemaking, is required to 
                register, or comply as a registrant, under the 
                Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et 
                seq.).
            (3) Application.--
                    (A) In general.--Any person or group of persons 
                determined under this subsection to be required to 
                register, or comply as a registrant, under the 
                Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.) 
                (referred to in this paragraph as the ``Exchange Act'') 
                shall be subject to that Act and the Bank Secrecy Act 
                to the extent applicable under existing law, as in 
                effect on the day before the date of enactment of this 
                Act, consistent with the treatment of similarly 
                situated participants under the Exchange Act.
                    (B) Rulemaking.--The Secretary of the Treasury, in 
                consultation with the Commission, shall adopt tailored, 
                clear, and specific rules, after providing notice and 
                the opportunity to comment, that define compliance with 
                obligations under the Bank Secrecy Act and other 
                Federal laws relating to anti-money laundering and 
                countering the financing of terrorism with respect to 
                any person, or group of persons under common control 
                (or acting pursuant to an agreement, arrangement, or 
                understanding to act in concert), that--
                            (i) controls the operation of a non-
                        decentralized finance trading protocol 
                        identified in the rulemaking conducted under 
                        paragraph (1);
                            (ii) is required to register, or comply as 
                        a registrant, under the Exchange Act, as 
                        determined in the rulemaking conducted under 
                        paragraph (1); and
                            (iii) is caused to be treated as a 
                        financial institution under the Bank Secrecy 
                        Act pursuant to existing law, as in effect on 
                        the day before the date of enactment of this 
                        Act, as a result of registration or compliance 
                        described in clause (ii).
    (c) Activity-Based Application.--Rules adopted under subsection 
(b)(1) shall require the Commission to determine the applicable 
requirements only with respect to securities-related activities, based 
on the functions performed by the controlling person or group of 
persons, including brokerage, dealing, trading, execution, clearing, or 
custody of securities, without regard to technological form, 
distributed architecture, or purportedly decentralized 
characterization.
    (d) Rules of Construction.--
            (1) Registration not required.--Nothing in this section, 
        nor any rule adopted under this section, may be construed to--
                    (A) require a distributed ledger system or any 
                software code to register with the Commission in its 
                own capacity; or
                    (B) prohibit the launch, deployment, or operation 
                of a distributed ledger system.
            (2) No expansion of statutory authority.--Notwithstanding 
        any rulemaking required under subsection (b), and 
        notwithstanding any action the Commission or the Secretary of 
        the Treasury may take under that subsection, nothing in this 
        section, including any such rulemaking, may be construed to--
                    (A) expand or contract the statutory authority of 
                the Commission or the Department of the Treasury, as in 
                effect on the day before the date of enactment of this 
                Act, under the Bank Secrecy Act; or
                    (B) limit the use of the authority described in 
                subparagraph (A) to determine, pursuant to that 
                rulemaking, the applicability of existing statutory 
                requirements, as in effect on the day before the date 
                of enactment of this Act, to persons or activities 
                described in this section.
            (3) No presumption of applicability.--Nothing in this 
        section may be construed to create a presumption that any 
        person or activity described in this section is or is not 
        subject to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a 
        et seq.) or the Bank Secrecy Act absent a determination made 
        pursuant to a rulemaking required under this section.
    (e) Preservation of Existing Authorities.--Nothing in this section 
may be construed to--
            (1) limit the authority of the Commission under the 
        securities laws to investigate violations, bring actions, or 
        issue subpoenas with respect to persons determined, pursuant to 
        rulemaking, to be subject to the securities laws under this 
        section; or
            (2) limit the authority of the Secretary of the Treasury 
        under the Bank Secrecy Act, including to investigate violations 
        or bring actions with respect to persons determined, pursuant 
        to rulemaking, to be subject to the Bank Secrecy Act.
    (f) Non-Decentralized Finance Trading Protocols.--
            (1) In general.--In adopting rules under subsection (b), 
        the Commission shall treat a decentralized governance system 
        and any person participating in the decentralized governance 
        system as separate persons unless such persons are under common 
        control or acting pursuant to an agreement, arrangement, or 
        understanding to act in concert.
            (2) Emergency measures.--
                    (A) In general.--Pre-defined, temporary rules-based 
                cybersecurity emergency measures exercised by an 
                incident-response or security council exclusively in 
                response to a specific and documented cybersecurity 
                incident or imminent threat and pursuant to publicly 
                disclosed, on-chain authorization mechanisms, strictly 
                limited in scope and duration solely to address such 
                specific and documented cybersecurity incident or 
                imminent threat, and without unilateral control by any 
                single person, shall not, by themselves, constitute 
                common control or an agreement, arrangement, or 
                understanding to act in concert, provided that such 
                rules and authorities, including the procedures and 
                operational limits governing such emergency measures, 
                are disclosed in publicly available written 
                documentation reasonably available to the applicable 
                Federal regulator, by a decentralized governance system 
                or similar legal entity sufficiently in advance of any 
                exercise of such emergency powers.
                    (B) Prohibition.--The emergency measures described 
                in subparagraph (A) may not be used to implement 
                protocol upgrades, governance decisions, or economic 
                changes that are unrelated to the mitigation of the 
                applicable cybersecurity incident or imminent threat, 
                as described in that subparagraph.
            (3) Standards.--The standards criteria for temporary rules-
        based cybersecurity emergency measures under paragraph (2) 
        shall be established by rulemaking pursuant to subsection (b).

SEC. 302. ILLICIT FINANCE OBLIGATIONS FOR DISTRIBUTED LEDGER MESSAGING 
              SYSTEMS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Distributed ledger messaging system.--The term 
        ``distributed ledger messaging system''--
                    (A) means a web-hosted software application that 
                provides a user with the ability to create or submit an 
                instruction, communication, or message to a distributed 
                ledger application or decentralized finance trading 
                protocol for the purpose of executing a transaction by 
                the user; and
                    (B) does not include--
                            (i) a distributed ledger application;
                            (ii) a distributed ledger protocol;
                            (iii) a distributed ledger system;
                            (iv) a decentralized finance trading 
                        protocol;
                            (v) any client, node, validator, or other 
                        form of computational infrastructure with 
                        respect to a distributed ledger system; or
                            (vi) any software or hardware wallet that 
                        facilitates the custody of an individual of 
                        their digital assets.
            (2) United States sanction law.--The term ``United States 
        sanction law'' means any Federal law imposing, or authorizing 
        the imposition of, economic sanctions.
    (b) Guidance.--Not later than 360 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall issue guidance with 
respect to the economic sanctions and anti-money laundering and 
countering the financing of terrorism obligations, risk management 
practices, or compliance considerations, applicable to a distributed 
ledger messaging system that is owned or operated by a United States 
person, as defined in any law imposing or authorizing the imposition of 
economic sanctions, which may include--
            (1) the use of commercially reasonable distributed ledger-
        analytics screening measures, through industry-standard 
        distributed ledger-analytics tools, to identify wallet 
        addresses that are owned by sanctioned persons, involve 
        jurisdictions or financial institutions subject to United 
        States sanctions, or activity prohibited by United States 
        sanctions;
            (2) blocking, rejecting, preventing the routing of, or 
        otherwise restricting attempted transactions prohibited by 
        United States sanction laws;
            (3) blocking or restricting transactions that exhibit 
        indicators of ransomware activity, illicit finance typologies, 
        or any other pattern that presents a significant and 
        identifiable illicit finance risk based on a commercially 
        reasonable distributed ledger-analytics assessment to identify 
        transactions that involve ransomware activity and other illicit 
        finance activity; and
            (4) implementing and maintaining risk-based measures, 
        consistent with applicable law, to identify, mitigate, and 
        address anti-money laundering and countering the financing of 
        terrorism risks, including--
                    (A) monitoring for risk indicators and limiting 
                exposure to illicit-finance risks, which may include 
                restricting, limiting, or otherwise mitigating exposure 
                to high-risk transactions; and
                    (B) complying, as applicable, with special measures 
                implemented by the Secretary of the Treasury under 
                section 5318A of title 31, United States Code.
    (c) Enforcement and Penalties.--The Secretary of the Treasury and 
any other Federal agency with relevant jurisdiction have the authority, 
as applicable, to enforce this section using their existing 
authorities, as of the day before the date of enactment of this Act, 
under applicable law.
    (d) Rules of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
construed to--
            (1) alter or amend any laws imposing or authorizing 
        imposition of economic sanctions by the United States, 
        including those that apply to United States persons that own or 
        operate a distributed ledger messaging system;
            (2) expand or contract the applicability of--
                    (A) economic sanctions, anti-money laundering, or 
                any other illicit finance laws in effect as of the day 
                before the date of enactment of this Act to any person, 
                including any person that owns or operates a 
                distributed ledger messaging system; or
                    (B) the definition of a ``financial institution'' 
                under applicable laws, which shall not apply to non-
                controlling developers or providers as defined in 
                section 604(b)(3); or
            (3) restrict the authority of the Secretary of the Treasury 
        to implement, administer, and enforce, including by imposing 
        civil money penalties, any law imposing or authorizing the 
        imposition of economic sanctions or any law to prevent money 
        laundering or illicit finance otherwise provided by Federal law 
        to the Secretary of the Treasury.

SEC. 303. SPECIAL MEASURE RELATING TO CERTAIN TRANSMITTALS OF FUNDS.

    Section 5318A of title 31, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(2)(C), by striking ``subsection 
        (b)(5)'' and inserting ``paragraph (5) or (6) of subsection 
        (b)'' and
            (2) in subsection (b), by adding at the end the following:
            ``(6) Special measure for certain transmittals of funds.--
        If the Secretary of the Treasury finds that a jurisdiction 
        outside of the United States, 1 or more financial institutions 
        operating outside of the United States, or 1 or more classes of 
        transactions within, or involving, a jurisdiction outside of 
        the United States is of primary money laundering concern in 
        connection with illicit finance through the use of digital 
        assets, as defined in section 2 of the GENIUS Act (12 U.S.C. 
        5901), the Secretary may, by order, regulation, or otherwise as 
        permitted by law, prohibit, or impose conditions upon, certain 
        transmittals of funds (to be defined by the Secretary by 
        regulation) by any domestic financial institution or domestic 
        financial agency, if such transmittal of funds involves any 
        such institution, class of transaction, or type of account.''.

SEC. 304. OFFSHORE STABLECOIN REPORT.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Material volume of transactions.--The term ``material 
        volume of transactions'' means a sustained level of transaction 
        activity that is--
                    (A) publicly observable;
                    (B) exceeds de minimis usage over a 12-month 
                period; and
                    (C) is reasonably likely to affect the illicit 
                finance or national security risk exposure of the 
                United States.
            (2) Payment stablecoin.--The term ``payment stablecoin'' 
        has the meaning given the term in section 2 of the GENIUS Act 
        (12 U.S.C. 5901).
            (3) United states-dependent offshore stablecoin.--The term 
        ``United States-dependent offshore stablecoin'' means a payment 
        stablecoin--
                    (A) that is not issued by a permitted payment 
                stablecoin issuer or any foreign payment stablecoin 
                issuer registered with the Comptroller (as those terms 
                are defined in section 2 of the GENIUS Act (12 U.S.C. 
                5901));
                    (B) that is issued by a person operating outside of 
                the United States; and
                    (C) the value of which is supported or backed by a 
                reserve of assets that has a substantial nexus to the 
                United States, which may include--
                            (i) obligations of the United States, 
                        including United States Treasury securities and 
                        repurchase agreements backed by United States 
                        Treasury securities and funds held as deposits 
                        at any bank subject to the jurisdiction of the 
                        United States;
                            (ii) deposits maintained at a banking 
                        entity or insured depository institution 
                        located in the United States, including 
                        correspondent or payable-through accounts;
                            (iii) securities issued or guaranteed by 
                        the United States or any agency or 
                        instrumentality thereof; or
                            (iv) assets custodied, cleared, or settled 
                        through payment, clearing, or settlement 
                        systems located in the United States.
    (b) Report.--Not later than June 30 of the second calendar year 
that begins after the date of enactment of this Act, and every 4 years 
thereafter for not more than 3 reports, the Secretary of the Treasury 
shall submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of 
the Senate and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
Representatives, and make available on the website of the Department of 
the Treasury, a report assessing whether there is credible, 
articulable, and publicly supportable evidence of significant illicit 
finance threats or vulnerabilities associated with any United States-
dependent offshore stablecoin employed in a material volume of 
transactions.
    (c) Contents.--Each report required under subsection (b) shall 
include--
            (1) an assessment of the illicit finance risk of each 
        United States-dependent offshore stablecoin employed in a 
        material volume of transactions;
            (2) an assessment of the controls employed by the issuers 
        of United States-dependent offshore stablecoins to address the 
        use of such stablecoins in illicit finance, as available;
            (3) data and information regarding the volume of United 
        States-dependent offshore stablecoins assessed to be employed 
        in connection with illicit finance, as available;
            (4) a general description of the relationships between 
        United States-dependent offshore stablecoins and the financial 
        system of the United States, including principal channels of 
        interaction; and
            (5) such other information or analysis as the Secretary of 
        the Treasury deems relevant to assessing the illicit finance 
        risks of United States-dependent offshore stablecoins.
    (d) Classified Annex.--Each report required under subsection (b) 
shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified 
annex.
    (e) National Strategy.--The reporting requirement under subsection 
(b) may be met as part of the national strategy for combating terrorist 
and other illicit financing required under sections 261 and 262 of the 
Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (Public Law 115-
44; 131 Stat. 934) for the reporting years.
    (f) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be construed 
to authorize--
            (1) the disclosure of any information that is protected 
        from disclosure under Federal law; and
            (2) the collection or use of any information other than 
        publicly available data or information lawfully obtained by the 
        Department of the Treasury under existing authorities, as of 
        the day before the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 305. TEMPORARY HOLD FOR CERTAIN DIGITAL ASSET TRANSACTIONS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Covered agency.--The term ``covered agency'' means any 
        State or Federal law enforcement agency, including the 
        Department of the Treasury.
            (2) Covered person.--The term ``covered person'' means a 
        person that is--
                    (A) a permitted payment stablecoin issuer;
                    (B) a foreign payment stablecoin issuer (as defined 
                in section 2 of the GENIUS Act (12 U.S.C. 5901)) 
                registered with the Office of the Comptroller of the 
                Currency pursuant to section 18(c) of that Act (12 
                U.S.C. 5916(c)); or
                    (C) a digital asset service provider, as that term 
                is defined in section 2 of the GENIUS Act (12 U.S.C. 
                5901).
            (3) Payment stablecoin; permitted payment stablecoin 
        issuer.--The terms ``payment stablecoin'' and ``permitted 
        payment stablecoin issuer'' have the meanings given those terms 
        in section 2 of the GENIUS Act (12 U.S.C. 5901).
            (4) Qualified written request.--The term ``qualified 
        written request'' means a written communication issued by an 
        authorized official of a covered agency that--
                    (A) identifies a specific wallet, address, account, 
                or transaction reasonably suspected of being linked to 
                illicit activity;
                    (B) requests a covered person initiate an action 
                with respect to the specified wallet, address, account, 
                or transaction reasonably suspected of being linked to 
                illicit activity, including delaying the execution of a 
                transaction, conversion, or withdrawal involving 
                digital assets; and
                    (C) includes a designated agency contact.
            (5) Temporary hold.--The term ``temporary hold'' means a 
        restriction applied by a covered person that delays execution 
        of a transaction, conversion, or withdrawal involving digital 
        assets for a reasonable period of time, not to exceed 30 
        calendar days, which may be extended for an additional 150 
        calendar days pursuant to a qualified written request.
    (b) Protection From Private Causes of Action.--
            (1) In general.--Any covered person that, in good faith and 
        in compliance with this section, or any person complying with a 
        temporary lawful order under subsection (c) that, voluntarily 
        implements a temporary hold shall not be held liable pursuant 
        to any Federal or State private right of action for 
        implementing the temporary hold, provided that--
                    (A) the covered person or other person, as 
                applicable--
                            (i) implements the temporary hold based on 
                        a reasonable belief the transaction, 
                        conversion, or withdrawal relates to a 
                        violation or attempted violation of State or 
                        Federal law; or
                            (ii) implements the temporary hold after 
                        receiving a qualified written request from a 
                        covered agency;
                    (B) the covered person--
                            (i) makes reasonable efforts to notify the 
                        affected customer of the temporary hold;
                            (ii) reasonably determines that 
                        notification would impede actual or potential 
                        law enforcement efforts; or
                            (iii) receives a qualified written request 
                        from a covered agency that requests 
                        notification not be attempted; and
                    (C) the covered person notifies as soon as 
                reasonably practicable an appropriate State or Federal 
                law enforcement agency or the Federal Trade Commission, 
                provided that such notification is not required when 
                the covered person has received a qualified written 
                request from a covered agency.
            (2) Documentation.--A covered person shall--
                    (A) maintain for the 3-year period following the 
                implementation of a temporary hold documentation of the 
                basis for applying a temporary hold; and
                    (B) make available the documentation described in 
                subparagraph (A) upon the request of a covered agency 
                or the Federal Trade Commission.
    (c) Compliance With Temporary Lawful Orders.--A permitted payment 
stablecoin issuer shall comply with any valid writ, process, order, 
rule, decree, command, or other requirement issued or promulgated under 
Federal law by a court of competent jurisdiction that--
            (1) requires a person to freeze or prevent the transfer of 
        payment stablecoins;
            (2) specifies the payment stablecoins or accounts subject 
        to blocking with reasonable particularity; and
            (3) is subject to judicial or administrative review or 
        appeal, as provided by law.
    (d) Rules of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
construed to--
            (1) compel or require any covered person to take action to 
        freeze, seize, or block digital assets that is not otherwise 
        required under existing Federal or State law, as in effect on 
        the day before the date of enactment of this Act;
            (2) limit or alter the authority of any government agency, 
        including with respect to authority to pursue enforcement 
        actions;
            (3) limit or affect the application of--
                    (A) section 5318(g)(3) of title 31, United States 
                Code, and any regulation requiring any financial 
                institution to report suspicious activity; or
                    (B) any lawful authority to seize or freeze assets 
                pursuant to a lawful order or sanctions designation; or
            (4) limit the ability of a covered person to apply a 
        temporary hold to any wallet, address, account, or transaction 
        located outside the United States.
    (e) Reporting.--The Attorney General and the Federal Trade 
Commission may issue regulations or guidance relating to any 
notification by covered persons pursuant to this section to the 
Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission, respectively.

SEC. 306. VOLUNTARY CYBERSECURITY PROGRAM FOR DECENTRALIZED FINANCE 
              TRADING PROTOCOLS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Covered activities.--The term ``covered activities'' 
        means the activities described in section 15H(b) of the 
        Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as added by section 601.
            (2) Decentralized finance trading protocol.--The term 
        ``decentralized finance trading protocol'' has the meaning 
        given the term in section 15H(a) of the Securities Exchange Act 
        of 1934, as added by section 601.
            (3) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
        NIST.
            (4) NIST.--The term ``NIST'' means the National Institute 
        of Standards and Technology.
    (b) Establishment of Program.--The Director shall, in consultation 
with the Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 
establish a voluntary program for the adoption by persons developing 
decentralized finance trading protocols or engaging in covered 
activities of applicable cybersecurity standards published by NIST.
    (c) Development of Program Criteria.--
            (1) Request for information.--The Director shall issue a 
        request for information in the Federal Register to gather input 
        from experts and industry stakeholders on--
                    (A) cybersecurity threats, vulnerabilities, and 
                risks to decentralized finance trading protocols;
                    (B) auditing and code security standards, including 
                best practices for code audits;
                    (C) consumer protection and code transparency best 
                practices on decentralized finance trading protocols; 
                and
                    (D) existing NIST standards, as of the day before 
                the date of enactment of this Act, and their 
                applicability to decentralized finance trading 
                protocols.
            (2) Report.--The Director shall develop a report on the 
        software development of decentralized finance protocols to 
        assess technical input from paragraph (1).
            (3) Publication of program criteria.--After evaluating 
        input provided under paragraph (1), the Director shall release 
        a special publication containing a detailed evaluation of 
        cybersecurity best practices and existing applicable standards, 
        as of the day before the date of enactment of this Act, for 
        decentralized finance trading protocols, to provide program 
        criteria to software developers and industry stakeholders under 
        the voluntary program, which shall include a summary of public 
        comments and responses as to how input was incorporated.
            (4) Requests for revision.--
                    (A) In general.--After the Director publishes the 
                program criteria under paragraph (3), the Director 
                shall issue a request for comment in the Federal 
                Register to gather input on the workability of the 
                program.
                    (B) Petition.--The public may petition the Director 
                to reevaluate certain aspects of the program criteria 
                published under paragraph (3).
            (5) Program updates.--As the technology underpinning 
        decentralized finance trading protocols evolves, the Director 
        shall update the special publication under paragraph (3) in 
        compliance with subsection (d).
    (d) Program.--
            (1) Application.--A person seeking evaluation of a 
        decentralized finance trading protocol or a covered activity 
        under the program established under subsection (b) shall submit 
        to the Director an application at such time and in such manner 
        as the Director considers appropriate for purposes of the 
        program.
            (2) Review.--In carrying out the program established under 
        subsection (b), the Director shall review each application 
        submitted by a person under paragraph (1) of this subsection.
            (3) Determination.--In carrying out a review under 
        paragraph (2) of an application regarding a decentralized 
        finance trading protocol or covered activity, the Director 
        shall determine whether the protocol or activity is in 
        compliance with existing applicable standards, frameworks, and 
        guidelines published by the Director under subsection (c).
            (4) Notice.--For each determination made under paragraph 
        (3) pursuant to an application by a person of a decentralized 
        finance trading protocol or covered activity, the Director 
        shall transmit to the person a notice of the determination.
    (e) Benefits of Program.--
            (1) Display.--A person that receives notice under 
        subsection (d)(4) that the Director has determined that a 
        decentralized finance trading protocol or a covered activity 
        has adopted the applicable cybersecurity standards published by 
        NIST, the person may publicly display a designation, seal, or 
        other identifier issued by the Director.
            (2) Treatment of adoption.--In adopting a regulation or 
        guidance relating to this section, a Federal agency shall 
        consider adoption of cybersecurity standards under the program 
        required by subsection (b) as evidence of good faith compliance 
        with the law.
    (f) Rule of Construction Relating to Preemption.--Nothing in this 
section may be construed to preempt any otherwise applicable provision 
of law of a State.

SEC. 307. AMENDMENTS TO MONETARY INSTRUMENT DEFINITION.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Self-hosted wallet.--The term ``self-hosted wallet'' 
        means a digital interface--
                    (A) that is used to secure and transfer digital 
                assets; and
                    (B) under which the owner of digital assets secured 
                and transferred under subparagraph (A) retains 
                independent control over those digital assets.
            (2) United states sanction law.--The term ``United States 
        sanction law'' has the meaning given the term in section 
        302(a).
    (b) Monetary Instruments.--Section 5312(a)(3)(D) of title 31, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting ``, including digital 
assets (as defined in section 2 of the GENIUS Act (12 U.S.C. 5901)), as 
may be applicable,'' after ``value''.
    (c) Treasury Risk Assessment.--As part of the national strategy for 
combating terrorist and other illicit financing required under sections 
261 and 262 of the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions 
Act (Public Law 115-44; 131 Stat. 934), the Secretary of the Treasury 
shall consider--
            (1) illicit activity, such as money laundering and 
        sanctions evasion, involving self-hosted wallets;
            (2) the effectiveness of and gaps in existing (as of the 
        day before the date of enactment of this Act) methods, 
        techniques, and strategies used by regulated financial 
        institutions in detecting illicit activity, such as money 
        laundering, involving self-hosted wallets;
            (3) any illicit actors, including nation state actors, that 
        pose a high risk of facilitating illicit activity through the 
        use of self-hosted wallets;
            (4) the benefits of the use of self-hosted wallets to--
                    (A) enhance user privacy and civil liberties 
                through direct asset custody; and
                    (B) expand financial inclusion and access for 
                communities underserved by traditional financial 
                institutions;
            (5) end user and counterparty risks associated with self-
        hosted wallets, including consumer fraud, cybersecurity, and 
        identity verification;
            (6) the use of hardware self-hosted wallets to smuggle 
        digital assets for financing cross-border illicit activity;
            (7) the use of hardware self-hosted wallets for tax evasion 
        and asset concealment; and
            (8) other considerations the Secretary may determine 
        appropriate.
    (d) Guidance.--The Secretary of the Treasury may issue guidance for 
financial institutions that transact with self-hosted wallets based on 
the results of the research on benefits and risks required under 
subsection (c), which shall not--
            (1) require a regulated entity to collect, with respect to 
        any transaction, personally identifiable information about the 
        controller of a self-hosted wallet when the controller is not 
        both the customer of the regulated entity and a party to such 
        transaction, except as required by Federal law, including 
        United States sanctions laws and regulations or lawful process; 
        or
            (2) be construed to hinder, restrict, or otherwise impair 
        the authority of any Federal agency to investigate, detect, 
        counteract, or prevent illegal activity.

SEC. 308. RISK MANAGEMENT STANDARDS FOR DIGITAL ASSET INTERMEDIARIES.

    (a) In General.--Before conducting trading activity (including 
routing orders and executing trades) through a decentralized finance 
trading protocol, a digital asset intermediary shall implement risk 
management standards as described in subsection (b) with respect to 
trading using that decentralized finance trading protocol.
    (b) Requirements.--The risk management standards applicable to a 
digital asset intermediary shall be comprised of the following:
            (1) Conducting an effective risk analysis with respect to 
        the decentralized finance trading protocol, including--
                    (A) money laundering and sanctions evasion risks, 
                including whether trading will involve activity 
                relating to a primary money laundering concern;
                    (B) fraud and market manipulation;
                    (C) operational and cybersecurity risk, including 
                settlement; and
                    (D) implementing robust policies and procedures to 
                mitigate the risks identified under this paragraph.
            (2) Disclosing the risks identified under paragraph (1) 
        using plain language to customers.
            (3) Maintaining robust, risk-based capability to detect 
        market manipulation, fraud, money laundering, and sanctions 
        evasion occurring on the decentralized finance trading 
        protocol, which may include the use of alternative tools that 
        will properly target such risks, including distributed ledger 
        analytics tools.
            (4) Implementing an effective risk-based procedure for 
        determining whether to execute, reject, or suspend an incoming 
        or outgoing transaction relating to the decentralized finance 
        trading protocol, as applicable, including a determination 
        based on suspected risk of money laundering, sanctions evasion, 
        fraud, or market manipulation.
            (5) Consistent with this subsection, implementing other 
        reasonable standards which may be required by rule.
    (c) Examinations.--
            (1) Compliance.--The Commission or the Commodity Futures 
        Trading Commission, or other appropriate self-regulatory 
        organization, shall verify compliance with the requirements of 
        this section as part of a regular examination of the digital 
        asset intermediary at the frequency and under the conditions 
        otherwise provided by law or rule.
            (2) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
        construed to limit the authority of the Financial Crimes 
        Enforcement Network or the Office of Foreign Assets Control 
        from conducting examinations, investigations, or enforcement 
        actions relating to this section as otherwise provided by law.
    (d) Rulemaking.--Rules shall be adopted to implement this section 
as follows:
            (1) The Department of the Treasury, in consultation with 
        the Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 
        shall adopt rules to implement the money laundering and 
        sanctions evasion risk analysis standards of this section.
            (2) The Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading 
        Commission shall adopt rules to implement this section other 
        than the provisions described in paragraph (1).
            (3) Rules adopted under this paragraph shall be reasonably 
        tailored to the size of the applicable digital asset 
        intermediary and risks of the digital asset intermediary that 
        are reasonably knowable to the digital asset intermediary.

SEC. 309. STUDY ON DIGITAL ASSET MIXERS AND TUMBLERS.

    (a) Digital Asset Mixer and Tumbler Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``digital asset mixer and tumbler'' means a smart contract, or set 
of smart contracts, that obfuscate or eliminate the source or other 
forms of identification of the holder of a digital asset, including by 
pooling assets from different holders and redistributing those assets 
among holders.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to the Committee 
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee 
on Financial Services of the House of Representatives a report that 
analyzes the following issues:
            (1) Current (as of the date on which the report is 
        submitted) typologies of digital asset mixers and tumblers and 
        historical transaction volume.
            (2) Estimates of the percentage of transactions relating to 
        digital asset mixers and tumblers that are used by actors 
        engaged in illicit finance.
            (3) Estimates of the reliance, and financial exposure, of 
        centralized exchanges and traditional financial institutions to 
        digital asset mixers and tumblers, and the extent to which 
        centralized exchanges and traditional financial institutions 
        are adequately implementing anti-money laundering and economic 
        sanctions compliance with respect to digital asset mixers and 
        tumblers.
            (4) An assessment of potential non-illicit uses of mixers 
        and tumblers described in paragraph (1), including privacy 
        benefits.
            (5) An analysis of regulatory approaches employed by other 
        jurisdictions relating to digital asset mixers and tumblers.
            (6) Recommendations for legislation or regulation relating 
        to digital asset mixers and tumblers.

SEC. 310. GAO STUDY ON INTERMEDIARIES IN FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS.

    (a) In General.--The Comptroller General of the United States, in 
consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, shall conduct a study 
to--
            (1) assess the risks posed by digital asset intermediaries 
        that--
                    (A) are primarily located in foreign jurisdictions 
                that lack regulatory requirements that are 
                substantially similar to the requirements of the Bank 
                Secrecy Act; and
                    (B) provide services to United States persons; and
            (2) provide any regulatory or legislative recommendations 
        to address the risks described in paragraph (1).
    (b) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to 
Congress a report containing all findings and determinations made in 
carrying out the study required under subsection (a).

SEC. 311. STUDIES ON FOREIGN ADVERSARY ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Foreign adversary.--The term ``foreign adversary'' 
        means a foreign government or foreign non-government person 
        determined by the Secretary of Commerce to be a foreign 
        adversary under section 791.4(a) of title 15, Code of Federal 
        Regulations, or any successor regulation.
            (2) Relevant congressional committees.--The term ``relevant 
        congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
                Affairs of the Senate;
                    (B) the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
                Forestry of the Senate;
                    (C) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
                Senate;
                    (D) the Committee on Financial Services of the 
                House of Representatives;
                    (E) the Committee on Agriculture of the House of 
                Representatives; and
                    (F) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence 
                of the House of Representatives.
    (b) Treasury Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation 
with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the Commission, shall 
conduct a study and submit a report to the relevant congressional 
committees, which may include a classified annex, that--
            (1) identifies any digital asset intermediary that is 
        controlled by a government of a foreign adversary, or by 
        individuals or entities acting at the direction of a foreign 
        adversary;
            (2) determines whether any government of a foreign 
        adversary is collecting trading data about United States 
        persons in digital asset markets; and
            (3) evaluates whether any proprietary intellectual property 
        of digital asset intermediaries is being misused or stolen by 
        any government of a foreign adversary.
    (c) GAO Study and Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall conduct a study 
and submit a report to the relevant congressional committees, which may 
include a classified annex, that--
            (1) identifies any digital asset intermediary that is owned 
        by a government of a foreign adversary, or by individuals or 
        entities acting at the direction of a foreign adversary;
            (2) determines whether any government of a foreign 
        adversary is collecting trading data about United States 
        persons in digital asset markets; and
            (3) evaluates whether any proprietary intellectual property 
        of digital asset intermediaries is being misused or stolen by 
        any government of a foreign adversary.

SEC. 312. TREASURY STUDY ON CYBERSECURITY STANDARDS.

    (a) Study.--The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the 
Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, the 
Director of the National Security Agency, and the Director of the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology, shall conduct a study 
on cybersecurity standards applicable to digital asset smart contracts, 
custody, key management, and smart contract deployment.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 365 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate 
        and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
        Representatives a report containing--
                    (A) the findings of the study under subsection (a); 
                and
                    (B) any legislative recommendations.
            (2) Classified annex.--The report under paragraph (1) may 
        include a classified annex, as appropriate.

SEC. 313. STUDIES ON FINANCIAL STABILITY RISKS OF DECENTRALIZED FINANCE 
              TRADING AND CREDIT IN DIGITAL COMMODITY MARKETS.

    Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, and 
every 4 years thereafter until 4 consecutive reports have been issued, 
the Secretary of the Treasury, the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, the Commission, and the Commodity Futures Trading 
Commission shall--
            (1) conduct a study examining--
                    (A) the role of decentralized finance protocols in 
                the financial system, including--
                            (i) the functions of such protocols;
                            (ii) the use of such protocols to obtain 
                        leverage or financing;
                            (iii) the effects of such protocols on the 
                        pricing and trading of financial instruments, 
                        including descriptions of any linkages between 
                        such protocols and traditional financial 
                        instrument; and
                            (iv) the types and volumes of financial 
                        activity conducted through such protocols;
                    (B) the risks of decentralized finance protocols to 
                financial stability, fair and orderly markets, and 
                otherwise to the financial system of the United States, 
                which shall include a quantification of those risks, to 
                the extent possible;
                    (C) the strategies and guardrails regulators and 
                market participants have used and are using to mitigate 
                risks arising from the use of decentralized finance 
                protocols; and
                    (D) an assessment of whether the regulatory 
                framework adequately controls any risk with respect to 
                decentralized finance protocols;
            (2) conduct a separate study examining the risks to 
        financial stability and orderly markets arising from the 
        extension and maintenance of credit with respect to digital 
        assets by digital asset service providers, including--
                    (A) the effect of gaps in the regulatory framework 
                for credit extended on digital assets, such as risks 
                arising from the extension and maintenance of credit on 
                digital assets; and
                    (B) the interconnections between leverage in the 
                market for digital assets and the financial system; and
            (3) submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
        Affairs of the Senate, the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, 
        and Forestry of the Senate, the Committee on Financial Services 
        of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
        Agriculture of the House of Representatives a report on the 
        studies conducted under paragraphs (1) and (2), which--
                    (A) shall include legislative and regulatory 
                recommendations, as appropriate; and
                    (B) may include a classified annex.

                TITLE IV--RESPONSIBLE BANKING INNOVATION

SEC. 401. PERMISSIBILITY OF DIGITAL ASSET ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate federal banking agency; state bank; state 
        bank supervisor; state member bank.--The terms ``appropriate 
        Federal banking agency'', ``State bank'', ``State bank 
        supervisor'', and ``State member bank'' have the meanings given 
        those terms in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act 
        (12 U.S.C. 1813).
            (2) Customer-driven transaction.--The term ``customer-
        driven transaction''--
                    (A) means a transaction that is entered into for a 
                valid and independent business purpose of a customer; 
                and
                    (B) does not include a transaction, the principal 
                purpose of which is to deliver to a financial holding 
                company, insured State bank, national bank, or Federal 
                credit union assets that the financial holding company, 
                insured State bank, national bank, or Federal credit 
                union, respectively, could not invest in directly.
            (3) Federal branch; state branch.--The terms ``Federal 
        branch'' and ``State branch'' have the meanings given those 
        terms in section 1(b) of the International Banking Act of 1978 
        (12 U.S.C. 3101).
            (4) Federal credit union; insured credit union.--The terms 
        ``Federal credit union'' and ``insured credit union'' have the 
        meanings given those terms in section 101 of the Federal Credit 
        Union Act (12 U.S.C. 1752).
            (5) Financial holding company.--The term ``financial 
        holding company'' has the meaning given the term in section 2 
        of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841).
            (6) Financial subsidiary.--The term ``financial 
        subsidiary'' has the meaning given the term in section 
        5136A(g)(3) of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 24a).
            (7) Insured state bank.--The term ``insured State bank'' 
        means a State bank, the deposits of which are insured by the 
        Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
            (8) National bank.--The term ``national bank'' means a 
        national banking association.
    (b) Authorized Activities for Financial Holding Companies and 
Financial Subsidiaries.--
            (1) In general.--A financial holding company or financial 
        subsidiary may use a digital asset or distributed ledger system 
        to perform, provide, or deliver any activity, function, 
        product, or service that the financial holding company is 
        otherwise authorized by law to perform, provide, or deliver.
            (2) Financial in nature.--The activities described in 
        subsection (g) are financial in nature, or incidental to a 
        financial activity, for purposes of section 4(k) of the Bank 
        Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1843(k)) and section 
        5136A(b) of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 24a(b)).
            (3) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this subsection may 
        be construed to exempt the performance, provision, or delivery 
        by a financial holding company or financial subsidiary of an 
        activity, function, product, or service from a requirement that 
        would apply if the activity were not performed, provided, or 
        delivered using a digital asset or distributed ledger system.
    (c) Authorized Activities for National Banks.--
            (1) In general.--
                    (A) Authorized activities.--A national bank may use 
                a digital asset or distributed ledger system to 
                perform, provide, or deliver any activity, function, 
                product, or service that the national bank is otherwise 
                authorized by law to perform, provide, or deliver.
                    (B) Branches of foreign banks.--
                            (i) Federal branches.--Consistent with 
                        section 4(b) of the International Banking Act 
                        of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3102(b)), the activities 
                        authorized for a national bank under 
                        subparagraph (A) and paragraph (2) shall be 
                        permissible for a Federal branch, subject to 
                        any limitations that would apply to those 
                        activities pursuant to the International 
                        Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.) if 
                        the activity were not performed, provided, or 
                        delivered using a digital asset or distributed 
                        ledger system.
                            (ii) Rule of construction for state 
                        branches.--For the purposes of activities 
                        engaged in by a State branch as principal under 
                        section 7(h) of the International Banking Act 
                        of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3105(h)), the activities 
                        authorized under clause (i) are permissible 
                        activities of a Federal branch.
            (2) Business of banking and other authorized activities.--
        The activities described in subsection (g) are authorized as 
        part of the business of banking under the paragraph designated 
        as the ``Seventh'' of section 5136 of the Revised Statutes (12 
        U.S.C. 24) or under other applicable law.
            (3) Rules of construction.--Nothing in this subsection may 
        be construed to--
                    (A) exempt the performance, provision, or delivery 
                by a national bank of an activity, function, product, 
                or service from a prohibition, restriction, 
                registration, limitation, or other requirement that 
                would apply if the activity were not performed, 
                provided, or delivered using a digital asset or 
                distributed ledger system by a national bank; or
                    (B) expand or contract the meaning of ``operations 
                are or have been required by the Comptroller of the 
                Currency to be limited to those of a trust company and 
                activities related thereto'', as that term is used in 
                section 5169(a) of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 
                27(a)).
    (d) State Banks.--The activities authorized under subsection (c) 
are permissible activities--
            (1) of a national bank for purposes of activities of an 
        insured State bank and any subsidiary of an insured State bank 
        to engage in as principal under subsections (a) and (d) of 
        section 24 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 
        1831a); and
            (2) of a State member bank, and any subsidiary of a State 
        member bank, to engage in as principal.
    (e) Authorized Activities for Federal Credit Unions.--
            (1) In general.--A Federal credit union may use a digital 
        asset or distributed ledger system to perform, provide, or 
        deliver any activity, function, product, or service that the 
        Federal credit union is otherwise authorized by law to perform, 
        provide, or deliver.
            (2) Business of credit unions.--The activities described in 
        subsection (g) are authorized as part of, or incidental to, the 
        authority necessary or requisite to carry on effectively the 
        business for which Federal credit unions are incorporated under 
        paragraph (17) of section 107 of the Federal Credit Union Act 
        (12 U.S.C. 1757(17)).
            (3) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this subsection may 
        be construed to exempt the performance, provision, or delivery 
        by a Federal credit union of an activity, function, product, or 
        service from a requirement that would apply if the activity 
        were not performed, provided, or delivered using a digital 
        asset or distributed ledger system.
    (f) Insured Credit Unions.--The activities authorized for a Federal 
credit union under subsection (e)(1) shall be permissible for an 
insured credit union, subject to authorization by applicable State law.
    (g) Activities Described.--The activities described in this 
subsection are--
            (1) providing custodial, fiduciary, or safekeeping services 
        for digital assets;
            (2) providing services related to custodial services for 
        digital assets, including staking, facilitating digital asset 
        lending, distributed ledger governance services, and advancing 
        funds for the purchase of digital assets or in respect of 
        distributions on digital assets;
            (3) making loans collateralized by digital assets;
            (4) engaging in payment activities involving digital 
        assets, including facilitating customer or principal payments 
        in connection with otherwise permissible activities;
            (5) operating a node on a distributed ledger;
            (6) providing self-custodial wallet software;
            (7) engaging in derivatives transactions, including related 
        hedging activities, in a manner consistent with section 7.1030 
        of title 12, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect as of 
        the date of enactment of this Act;
            (8) providing brokerage services with respect to any 
        digital asset, including clearing and execution services, 
        whether alone or in combination with other permissible 
        activities;
            (9) facilitating transactions in the secondary market for 
        all types of digital assets on the order of customers as a 
        riskless principal to the extent of engaging in a transaction 
        in which a company, after receiving an order to buy or sell a 
        digital asset from a customer, purchases or sells the digital 
        asset for its own account to offset a contemporaneous sale to 
        or purchase from the customer;
            (10) holding as principal digital assets for which the 
        banking entity anticipates a reasonably foreseeable need to the 
        extent incidental to an otherwise permissible activity, which 
        shall include holding digital assets as principal in order to 
        pay fees arising from interactions with a distributed ledger 
        system or for the purposes of risk management, treasury 
        services, liquidity management or trade or margin settlement or 
        similar purposes, subject to the otherwise applicable 
        limitations on the activities of a banking entity pursuant to 
        section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
        1851) and only to the extent that the terms and prohibitions of 
        that section apply to a transaction; and
            (11) underwriting, dealing in, or making a market in 
        digital assets in customer-driven transactions, including 
        related hedging activities in connection with those customer-
        driven transactions, subject to the otherwise applicable 
        limitations on the activities of a banking entity pursuant to 
        section 13 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
        1851) and only to the extent that the terms and prohibitions of 
        that section apply to a transaction.
    (h) Other Requirements.--There shall be no other prior notice or 
approval requirements to engage in the activities described in 
subsections (b) through (g) of this section other than those required 
under title LXII of the Revised Statutes, the Act entitled ``An Act to 
place authority over the trust powers of national banks in the 
Comptroller of the Currency'', approved September 28, 1962 (12 U.S.C. 
92a et seq.), the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 221 et seq.), or the 
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841 et seq.) and the 
regulations promulgated under those Acts.
    (i) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be construed 
to--
            (1) exclude other possible permissible activities that are 
        not activities described in subsection (g);
            (2) imply that inclusion of an activity described in 
        subsection (g) means that the activity is otherwise 
        impermissible;
            (3) limit the authority of an appropriate Federal banking 
        agency to determine that activities other than those activities 
        described in subsection (g) are permissible for a Federal 
        credit union or authorized as part of the business of banking, 
        or financial in nature, or incidental or complementary thereto, 
        or other applicable law, as applicable, through 
        interpretations, guidance, or rulemaking; or
            (4) limit the authority of an appropriate Federal banking 
        agency, or a State bank supervisor, to supervise and take 
        enforcement action with respect to an insured depository 
        institution (or, to the extent applicable, a financial holding 
        company) engaging in a digital asset activity authorized by 
        this section that the appropriate Federal banking agency or 
        State bank supervisor, as applicable, determines, pursuant to 
        applicable law, to be an unsafe or unsound practice or a 
        violation of a law, rule, or regulation, or any condition 
        imposed in writing.
    (j) Application.--The authorities described in this section shall 
not apply to nonfungible assets.

SEC. 402. JOINT RULES FOR PORTFOLIO MARGINING DETERMINATIONS.

    (a) In General.--The Commodity Futures Trading Commission and the 
Commission shall jointly issue rules to facilitate portfolio margining 
of securities (including related extensions of credit), security-based 
swaps, futures contracts for future delivery, options on futures 
contracts for future delivery, swaps, and digital commodities, or any 
subset thereof, for persons registered with either such Commission, 
in--
            (1) a securities account carried by a registered broker or 
        dealer or a security-based swap account carried by a registered 
        security-based swap dealer;
            (2) a futures or cleared swap account carried by a 
        registered futures commission merchant;
            (3) a swap account carried by a swap dealer; or
            (4) a digital commodity account carried by a registered 
        digital commodity broker or digital commodity dealer that is 
        also registered in such other capacity as is necessary to also 
        carry the other customer or counterparty positions being held 
        in the account.
    (b) Process.--The rules required to be jointly issued under 
subsection (a) shall--
            (1) describe the treatment of any account to which the 
        rules relate, and any assets that may be held therein, in a 
        proceeding under title 11, United States Code, the Securities 
        Investor Protection Act of 1970 (15 U.S.C. 78aaa et seq.), 
        title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer 
        Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5381 et seq.), or any other 
        applicable insolvency law with respect to the person carrying 
        the account;
            (2) be issued only if that issuance is in the public 
        interest and provides for the appropriate protection of 
        customers, including appropriate disclosures to each current 
        and potential customer concerning the treatment of any account 
        to which the rules relate, and any assets that may be held 
        therein, in a proceeding under title 11, United States Code, 
        the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 (15 U.S.C. 78aaa 
        et seq.), title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
        Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5381 et seq.), or any other 
        applicable insolvency law with respect to the person carrying 
        the account;
            (3) require the Commission and the Commodity Futures 
        Trading Commission to consider the public interest of, and the 
        protection of investors by, those rules through the 
        solicitation of public comments; and
            (4) require the Commission and the Commodity Futures 
        Trading Commission to--
                    (A) consult with other relevant foreign or domestic 
                regulators, including the Board of Governors of the 
                Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance 
                Corporation, the Office of the Comptroller of the 
                Currency, and State bank supervisors, as appropriate; 
                and
                    (B) if the rules pertain to a securities account 
                carried by a registered broker or dealer that is a 
                member of the Securities Investor Protection 
                Corporation, consult with the Securities Investor 
                Protection Corporation.

SEC. 403. CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS TO ADDRESS NETTING AGREEMENTS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``depository 
institution holding company'' and ``insured depository institution'' 
have the meanings given those terms in section 3 of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).
    (b) Capital Requirements.--Not later than 360 days after the date 
of enactment of this Act, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System, the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Chair of the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation shall develop risk-based and leverage 
capital requirements for insured depository institutions, depository 
institution holding companies, and nonbank financial companies 
supervised by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System that 
address netting agreements that provide for termination and close-out 
netting across multiple types of financial transactions, consistent 
with section 402, in the event of the default of a counterparty.

SEC. 404. PROHIBITING INTEREST AND YIELD ON PAYMENT STABLECOINS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Affiliate.--The term ``affiliate'' means any entity 
        that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control 
        with another entity.
            (2) Commissions.--The term ``Commissions'' means the 
        Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
            (3) Comptroller; foreign payment stablecoin issuer; payment 
        stablecoin; permitted payment stablecoin issuer.--The terms 
        ``Comptroller'', ``foreign payment stablecoin issuer'', 
        ``payment stablecoin'', and ``permitted payment stablecoin 
        issuer'' have the meanings given those terms in section 2 of 
        the GENIUS Act (12 U.S.C. 5901).
            (4) Covered party.--The term ``covered party'' means any 
        digital asset service provider, together with all of its 
        affiliates, but in each case excluding any permitted payment 
        stablecoin issuer or foreign payment stablecoin issuer 
        registered with the Comptroller.
            (5) Deposit.--The term ``deposit'' has the meaning given 
        the term in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 
        U.S.C. 1813).
            (6) Restricted recipient.--The term ``restricted 
        recipient'' means a United States person that is a customer or 
        user of a covered party.
            (7) United states person.--The term ``United States 
        person'' means a person that is a resident of the United States 
        or is organized or incorporated under the laws of the United 
        States.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) depository institutions provide financial services that 
        are integral to the strength of the economy of the United 
        States and that the payment of consideration by digital asset 
        service providers to United States customers or users based on 
        their payment stablecoin balances in a manner that is 
        economically or functionally equivalent to the payment of 
        interest or yield on an interest-bearing bank deposit may 
        inhibit the key functions of depository institutions in the 
        economy of the United States; and
            (2) payment stablecoins represent a significant innovation 
        in financial infrastructure that can strengthen the United 
        States payments system and the primacy of the United States 
        dollar and that activity-based rewards and incentives tied to 
        the use of payment stablecoins and participation in distributed 
        ledger systems are critical to enabling innovation, 
        competition, and consumer adoption.
    (c) Prohibition on Interest and Yield.--
            (1) In general.--No covered party shall, directly or 
        indirectly, pay any form of interest or yield (whether in cash, 
        tokens, or other consideration) to a restricted recipient--
                    (A) solely in connection with the holding of the 
                payment stablecoins of that restricted recipient; or
                    (B) on a payment stablecoin balance in a manner 
                that is economically or functionally equivalent to the 
                payment of interest or yield on an interest-bearing 
                bank deposit.
            (2) Activity-based or transaction-based rewards and 
        incentives permitted.--
                    (A) In general.--The prohibition under paragraph 
                (1) shall not apply with respect to rewards or 
                incentives based on bona fide activities or bona fide 
                transactions that are not economically or functionally 
                equivalent to the payment of interest or yield on an 
                interest-bearing bank deposit pursuant to the 
                regulations promulgated under paragraph (3).
                    (B) Equivalence to bank deposits.--Except as 
                permitted under subparagraph (A), the prohibition under 
                paragraph (1) shall apply to the payment of interest or 
                yield (whether in cash, tokens, or other consideration) 
                by a covered party to a restricted recipient in 
                connection with a loyalty, promotional, subscription, 
                or incentive program that is economically or 
                functionally equivalent to the payment of interest or 
                yield on an interest-bearing bank deposit.
            (3) Rulemaking.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Commissions and the 
                Secretary of the Treasury shall jointly promulgate 
                regulations through notice and comment rulemaking to 
                clarify the circumstances under which the prohibition 
                and permissible rewards and incentives in paragraphs 
                (1) and (2) shall apply. Such rulemaking shall include 
                a non-exhaustive list of permissible activity-based or 
                transaction-based rewards or incentives, including 
                payments to restricted recipients in connection with or 
                in compensation for any of the following, provided such 
                payments are not economically or functionally 
                equivalent to the payment of interest or yield on an 
                interest-bearing bank deposit:
                            (i) A transaction, payment, transfer, 
                        conversion, remittance, or settlement activity, 
                        including a rebate or incentive provided in 
                        connection with the acceptance or use of a 
                        payment stablecoin.
                            (ii) Providing liquidity for market-marking 
                        activity, posting of collateral in connection 
                        with trading, or otherwise putting assets at 
                        credit or investment risk.
                            (iii) The use of any product or service, 
                        including participation in governance, 
                        validation, staking, or a loyalty, promotional, 
                        subscription, or incentive program.
                    (B) Calculation by reference.--Payments to 
                restricted recipients of consideration, rewards, or 
                benefits that are permissible pursuant to paragraph (2) 
                and subparagraph (A) of this paragraph may be 
                calculated by reference to a balance, duration, tenure, 
                or any combination of the foregoing.
            (4) Evasion.--It shall be unlawful for a covered party to 
        violate the prohibition under paragraph (1) or rules 
        promulgated pursuant to paragraph (3). A covered party may not 
        circumvent or evade such prohibition or rules. The Commissions 
        and the Secretary may jointly issue such rules as may be 
        necessary or appropriate to prevent circumvention or evasion of 
        the prohibition under paragraph (1) or the rules promulgated 
        pursuant to paragraph (3).
            (5) Good faith reliance.--A covered party that structures a 
        program in good faith reliance on paragraphs (2) and (3) shall 
        not be subject to penalties if a subsequent rulemaking or 
        adjudication determines the program falls outside paragraphs 
        (2) and (3), provided--
                    (A) the covered party comes into compliance within 
                90 days of such determination; and
                    (B) the violation is not substantially similar to a 
                past violation by the covered party.
    (d) Prohibition on Specified Representations.--
            (1) Certain marketing practices.--No covered party shall 
        represent that--
                    (A) payment stablecoins are investment products, 
                deposits, backed by the full faith and credit of the 
                United States, guaranteed by the United States 
                Government, subject to deposit insurance by the Federal 
                Deposit Insurance Corporation, or subject to share 
                insurance by the National Credit Union Administration; 
                or
                    (B) any compensation (whether in cash, tokens, or 
                other consideration) paid to a restricted recipient in 
                connection with the holding, use, or retention of the 
                payment stablecoins of that restricted recipient is--
                            (i) paid or generated by the payment 
                        stablecoin itself, a permitted payment 
                        stablecoin issuer, or a foreign payment 
                        stablecoin issuer registered with the 
                        Comptroller;
                            (ii) risk-free or comparable to interest 
                        paid on a deposit; or
                            (iii) offered, administered, or paid by a 
                        person other than the covered party.
            (2) Misleading.--No covered party shall omit material 
        information necessary to prevent any marketing, promotion, or 
        description described in this subsection from being misleading.
    (e) Disclosures.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Commissions and the Secretary of the 
        Treasury shall jointly promulgate rules requiring clear and 
        conspicuous disclosure, in plain English, of any compensation 
        (whether in cash, tokens, or other consideration) paid by a 
        covered party in connection with the holding, use, or retention 
        of the payment stablecoins of a restricted recipient in a 
        manner that is consistent with subsection (d).
            (2) Requirements.--In promulgating rules under paragraph 
        (1), the Commissions and the Secretary of the Treasury shall 
        require that any required disclosure of compensation described 
        in that paragraph, and any related term, representation, or 
        description--
                    (A) is presented in a clear, factual, 
                nonpromotional, and non-misleading manner;
                    (B) clearly identifies the circumstances under 
                which such compensation can be paid;
                    (C) clearly identifies the person or persons 
                responsible for offering, administering, and paying 
                such compensation, including whether such persons are 
                affiliated with the issuer of associated payment 
                stablecoins;
                    (D) outlines all material terms with respect to 
                such compensation; and
                    (E) includes a statement that payment stablecoins 
                are not investment products, deposits, backed by the 
                full faith and credit of the United States, guaranteed 
                by the United States Government, subject to deposit 
                insurance by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
                or subject to share insurance by the National Credit 
                Union Administration.
            (3) Prohibition.--After the date on which the rules 
        promulgated under paragraph (1) become effective, no covered 
        party shall market the offering of compensation (whether in 
        cash, tokens, or other consideration) paid by such covered 
        party in connection with the holding, use, or retention of the 
        payment stablecoins of a restricted recipient unless the 
        covered party has provided the disclosures required under this 
        subsection.
            (4) Satisfaction of requirement.--A covered party that 
        provides the disclosures required under this subsection shall 
        be deemed not to have made a representation that is prohibited 
        under subsection (d), provided that--
                    (A) any marketing, promotion, or description with 
                respect to the applicable compensation does not 
                contradict those disclosures; and
                    (B) those disclosures are presented in plain 
                English and in a clear and conspicuous manner.
    (f) Penalty.--
            (1) Civil monetary penalty.--Whoever knowingly and 
        willfully participates in a violation of subsection (c)(1), 
        (d)(1), (d)(2), or (e)(3), or rules issued under subsection 
        (c)(4), shall be subject to a civil monetary penalty by the 
        Department of the Treasury of not more than $5,000,000 for each 
        such violation.
            (2) Determination of the number of violations.--For 
        purposes of determining the number of violations for this 
        subsection, separate acts of noncompliance are a single 
        violation when the acts are a result of--
                    (A) a common or substantially overlapping 
                originating cause; or
                    (B) the same statement or publication.
    (g) Referral to Secretary of the Treasury.--If the Commission or 
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission has reason to believe that any 
covered party has knowingly and willfully violated subsection (c)(1), 
(d)(1), (d)(2), or (e)(3), or rules issued under subsection (c)(4), the 
Commission or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, as applicable, 
shall refer the matter to the Secretary of the Treasury.
    (h) Report to Congress.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System, the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, the National Credit Union Administration, and the 
Secretary of the Treasury shall jointly submit to the Committee on 
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
Financial Services of the House of Representatives a report on payment 
stablecoin activity that--
            (1) analyzes and quantifies--
                    (A) the adoption of United States dollar-
                denominated payment stablecoins and of other payment 
                stablecoins issued by permitted payment stablecoin 
                issuers and foreign payment stablecoin issuers 
                registered with the Comptroller;
                    (B) the effect of United States dollar-denominated 
                payment stablecoins on the average yields of, and 
                demand for, United States Treasury securities of 
                various durations;
                    (C) the effect of United States dollar-denominated 
                payment stablecoins on the use of the dollar in global 
                foreign exchange transactions, global foreign exchange 
                reserves, and global trade;
                    (D) the effect of United States dollar-denominated 
                payment stablecoins on increasing access to financial 
                services for unbanked and underbanked persons, both 
                domestically and globally;
                    (E) the effect of United States dollar-denominated 
                payment stablecoins on payment costs of consumers and 
                merchants; and
                    (F) the adoption of non-United States dollar-
                denominated stablecoins, including foreign central bank 
                digital currencies, and their effect on the use of the 
                dollar in global foreign exchange transactions, global 
                foreign exchange reserves, and global trade;
            (2) describes how compensation, if any, is paid by covered 
        parties to restricted recipients with respect to the payment 
        stablecoins of restricted recipients, including through 
        rewards, incentives, or similar programs; and
            (3) analyzes and quantifies the effect of any compensation 
        described in paragraph (2) and the effect of prohibitions on 
        the payment of interest or yield by covered parties under this 
        Act and by issuers of payment stablecoins under section 
        4(a)(11) of the GENIUS Act (12 U.S.C. 5903(a)(11)) on--
                    (A) the volume, stickiness, composition, and 
                concentration of deposits at depository institutions, 
                including any deposit outflows from depository 
                institutions and the extent to which community banks 
                and credit unions are disproportionately affected 
                thereby;
                    (B) net interest margin accrued to depository 
                institutions;
                    (C) the average rate of interest paid to depositors 
                at depository institutions;
                    (D) consumer and business access to credit;
                    (E) financial arrangements between depository 
                institutions and digital asset service providers and 
                issuers of payment stablecoins; and
                    (F) the items described in paragraph (1).
    (i) No Deeming of Payment of Interest or Yield.--For purposes of 
this section, a covered party shall not be deemed to violate the 
prohibition in subsection (c) solely because an unaffiliated third 
party independently makes a payment with respect to a payment 
stablecoin, unless the covered party directs or maintains significant 
influence over the offering of such consideration and the offering of 
such consideration would otherwise violate the prohibition in 
subsection (c).
    (j) Clarification of Scope and Regulatory Authority.--
            (1) Compensation.--The prohibitions under subsections (c), 
        (d), and (e) shall only apply to compensation paid in 
        connection with a payment stablecoin or payment stablecoin 
        balance.
            (2) Other assets.--Nothing in this section shall be 
        construed to authorize the Commissions or the Secretary of the 
        Treasury to regulate, restrict, or prohibit the payment of any 
        compensation paid in connection with any asset other than a 
        payment stablecoin.
    (k) Non-applicability.--Nothing in this section shall--
            (1) modify, alter, or extend prohibitions on the payment of 
        yield, interest, or consideration applicable to permitted 
        payment stablecoin issuers or foreign payment stablecoin 
        issuers, including under section 4(a)(11) of the GENIUS Act (12 
        U.S.C. 5903(a)(11)); or
            (2) prohibit the disclosure by covered parties of truthful, 
        non-misleading factual information or any information otherwise 
        required by Federal law or regulation.

SEC. 405. EXPANDED SECURITIES PORTFOLIO MARGIN ACCOUNTS UNDER THE 
              SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970.

    (a) Amendments.--The Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 (15 
U.S.C. 78aaa et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 9(a) (15 U.S.C. 78fff-3(a))--
                    (A) in paragraph (4), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in paragraph (5), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(6) no advance shall be made by SIPC to the trustee to 
        pay or otherwise satisfy any net equity claim of any customer 
        with respect to any digital commodities or swaps held in an 
        expanded securities portfolio margin account.'';
            (2) in section 10(g) (15 U.S.C. 78fff-4(g)), by striking 
        ``16(12)'' and inserting ``16(13)''; and
            (3) in section 16 (15 U.S.C. 78lll)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (7) through (14) as 
                paragraphs (8) through (15), respectively;
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following:
            ``(7) Expanded securities portfolio margin account.--The 
        term `expanded securities portfolio margin account' means a 
        customer account--
                    ``(A) that is maintained by a broker or dealer 
                registered with the Commission;
                    ``(B) that includes positions in securities, 
                security-based swaps, futures contracts, options on 
                futures contracts, swaps, digital commodities, or other 
                financial instruments, or any combination thereof, as 
                permitted by rule jointly issued by the Commission and 
                the Commodity Futures Trading Commission;
                    ``(C) that is subject to portfolio margining 
                requirements approved pursuant to section 402 of the 
                Digital Asset Market Clarity Act; and
                    ``(D) in which margin requirements are determined 
                on a risk-based, portfolio-wide basis, rather than on 
                an instrument-by-instrument basis.''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (10), as so redesignated, in the 
                matter following subparagraph (L), by striking ``a 
                transaction in the portfolio margining account'' and 
                inserting ``the portfolio margining account or expanded 
                securities portfolio margin account''.
    (b) Rules.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Expanded securities portfolio margin account.--
                The term ``expanded securities portfolio margin 
                account'' has the meaning given the term in section 16 
                of the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 (15 
                U.S.C. 78lll), as amended by this section.
                    (B) SIPC.--The term ``SIPC'' means the Securities 
                Investor Protection Corporation.
            (2) Issuance of rules.--Notwithstanding any provision of 
        the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 (15 U.S.C. 78aaa 
        et seq.), in jointly issuing rules under section 402, the 
        Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, in 
        consultation with the SIPC and the Secretary of the Treasury, 
        shall issue rules relating to the treatment under that Act of 
        securities (including related extensions of credit), security-
        based swaps, contracts of sale of a commodity for future 
        delivery, options on contracts of sale of a commodity for 
        future delivery, swaps, digital commodities, cash, or other 
        property (to the extent that such instruments, cash, or other 
        property effectively hedge or collateralize a securities 
        position) held in an account offering portfolio margining 
        carried as a securities account by a registered broker or 
        dealer pursuant to an expanded securities portfolio margin 
        account to facilitate portfolio margining in a manner that 
        protects customers, including portfolio margin customers, which 
        shall include rules relating to--
                    (A) the transfer of accounts;
                    (B) the allocation of customer property among 
                customers;
                    (C) the eligibility of products and positions to be 
                held in an expanded securities portfolio margin 
                account, including any disclosures to and any elections 
                that may need to be performed by customers;
                    (D) the application of customer protection or 
                segregation requirements as between securities 
                customers who are and are not maintaining positions in 
                an expanded securities portfolio margin account;
                    (E) further defining the terms, solely as relating 
                to an expanded securities portfolio margin account, 
                ``customer'', ``customer property'', and ``net 
                equity'', as necessary or appropriate to address non-
                securities and non-cash positions and assets held in an 
                expanded securities portfolio margin account, and in a 
                manner consistent with subparagraphs (A) through (D); 
                and
                    (F) any interaction between a securities account 
                and an expanded securities portfolio margin account, 
                including any funding of debits in one type of account 
                by credits in the other type of account.
            (3) Process for issuance of rules.--The requirements of 
        section 402(b) shall apply with respect to the rules issued 
        under this subsection.
    (c) Effect of Rules.--An expanded securities portfolio margin 
account may not be offered, maintained, or utilized until the final 
rules required under subsection (b) are issued.

               TITLE V--RESPONSIBLE REGULATORY INNOVATION

SEC. 501. CFTC-SEC MICRO-INNOVATION SANDBOX.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means either of 
        the Commissions, as the context requires.
            (2) Commissions.--The term ``Commissions'' means the 
        Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures 
        Trading Commission.
            (3) Eligible firm.--The term ``eligible firm'' means a 
        person that is eligible to participate in the Sandbox, in 
        accordance with the requirements under this section.
            (4) Innovative.--The term ``innovative'' means new or 
        emerging technology, or a novel application of technology, 
        including artificial intelligence, that--
                    (A) provides a financial product, service, business 
                model, or delivery mechanism to the public; and
                    (B) lacks--
                            (i) a substantially comparable, widely 
                        available analogue in common use in the United 
                        States; and
                            (ii) an analogous Federal regulatory 
                        regime.
            (5) Person.--The term ``person'' means a person, as defined 
        in section 3(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 
        U.S.C. 78c(a)) or section 1a of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 
        U.S.C. 1a).
            (6) Sandbox.--The term ``Sandbox'' means the CFTC-SEC 
        Micro-Innovation Sandbox established under subsection (b).
            (7) Self-regulatory organization.--The term ``self-
        regulatory organization'' means a self-regulatory organization, 
        as defined in--
                    (A) section 3(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
                1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)); or
                    (B) section 1.52(a)(2) of title 17, Code of Federal 
                Regulations, or any successor regulation.
    (b) Establishment.--Not later than 360 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Commissions shall, by joint notice and 
comment rulemaking, establish a CFTC-SEC Micro-Innovation Sandbox to 
enable eligible firms to test innovative activities within the United 
States, subject to--
            (1) applicable Federal and State securities and commodities 
        laws;
            (2) other State laws that are not specific to the 
        regulation of securities or commodities; and
            (3) the limitations of this section.
    (c) Eligible Firm.--
            (1) In general.--A United States-based person shall be an 
        eligible firm, and shall be eligible to participate in the 
        Sandbox, if the person--
                    (A) submits an application under subsection (e) 
                that is approved under that subsection;
                    (B) seeks to conduct an eligible and lawful 
                innovative activity in the United States;
                    (C) is not subject to--
                            (i) a statutory disqualification, as 
                        defined in section 3(a) of the Securities 
                        Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a));
                            (ii) a disqualification under section 8a(2) 
                        of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 
                        12a(2)); or
                            (iii) a disqualification under State law;
                    (D) does not have a criminal conviction for fraud;
                    (E) agrees to submit to the jurisdiction and 
                oversight of the Commissions, to the extent that the 
                person is not subject to that jurisdiction or 
                oversight, for purposes of, and while participating in, 
                the Sandbox;
                    (F) designates to the Commissions an individual as 
                a point of contact with respect to activities that the 
                person undertakes as an applicant and participant with 
                respect to the Sandbox;
                    (G) employs not more than 25 employees; and
                    (H) has annual gross revenues of not more than 
                $10,000,000 in any fiscal year.
            (2) Application of requirements.--The requirements under 
        paragraph (1) shall be satisfied during the entire period in 
        which an eligible firm participates in the Sandbox.
    (d) Eligible Activities and Activity Ceilings.--
            (1) List of eligible activities.--
                    (A) In general.--After providing notice and an 
                opportunity for public comment, the Commissions shall 
                maintain and publish a list of eligible innovative 
                activities, which shall be--
                            (i) updated once every 2 years after 
                        providing notice and an opportunity for public 
                        comment;
                            (ii) reasonably tailored to include 
                        activities that--
                                    (I) further the purposes of this 
                                section; and
                                    (II) are consistent with the 
                                interests of the public and the 
                                protection of investors;
                            (iii) sufficiently flexible to accommodate 
                        evolving technological developments, including 
                        distributed ledger-based products and services; 
                        and
                            (iv) focused exclusively on activities for 
                        which specific provisions of the securities 
                        laws and commodities laws may create a material 
                        impediment to the proposed innovative activity.
                    (B) Identification of requirements.--
                            (i) In general.--For each eligible 
                        innovative activity, the Commissions shall, 
                        consistent with existing (as of the day before 
                        the date of enactment of this Act) statutory 
                        and regulatory precedent concerning the 
                        respective jurisdiction of each Commission, 
                        identify the requirements that each Commission 
                        will administer.
                            (ii) Joint jurisdiction.--With respect to 
                        an eligible innovative activity that is subject 
                        to the jurisdiction of both Commissions, the 
                        rulemaking under subsection (b) shall specify 
                        which requirements each Commission will 
                        administer and any coordinated conditions 
                        needed to protect investors and market 
                        integrity.
            (2) Activity ceilings.--For each eligible innovative 
        activity, the Commissions shall, after public input and 
        consultation, establish individual customer and monetary 
        ceilings, which shall provide that an eligible firm may not 
        raise or commit more than $20,000,000 in aggregate customer, 
        investor, or counterparty funds in connection with Sandbox 
        activities.
            (3) Annual participation cap.--Each of the Commissions may 
        approve not more than 20 projects per year.
    (e) Application.--
            (1) In general.--An eligible firm seeking to participate in 
        the Sandbox shall submit to the Commission or Commissions, as 
        applicable, an application that--
                    (A) describes the proposed innovative activity and 
                the desired outcomes;
                    (B) subject to approval of the applicable 
                Commission, identifies the provisions of the securities 
                laws, or of the Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et 
                seq.), from which the eligible firm proposes to be 
                exempt during the period in which the eligible firm 
                participates in the Sandbox, which--
                            (i) shall not include any Federal or State 
                        anti-fraud law or any other law that is not 
                        specific to the regulation of securities or 
                        commodities; and
                            (ii) shall be subject to the limitations of 
                        this section;
                    (C) sets forth how relief from the provisions of 
                law identified under subparagraph (B) is reasonably 
                necessary to engage in the innovative activity;
                    (D) identifies material risks to investors, 
                customers, or market integrity and how the eligible 
                firm will mitigate those risks;
                    (E) certifies that the eligible firm will comply 
                with applicable Federal and State anti-fraud laws;
                    (F) states an exit objective of the eligible firm 
                involving action from the applicable Commission, which 
                may include registration, an exemptive order, 
                interpretive guidance, a no-action letter, or a 
                rulemaking petition, together with milestones and 
                metrics the eligible firm will use to demonstrate 
                readiness for that exit;
                    (G) states the agreement of the eligible firm to 
                submit to the jurisdiction and oversight of the 
                Commissions, to the extent that the eligible firm is 
                not otherwise subject to that jurisdiction and 
                oversight, for purposes of, and while participating in, 
                the Sandbox;
                    (H) designates to the Commissions an individual as 
                a point of contact with respect to activities that the 
                eligible firm undertakes as an applicant and 
                participant with respect to the Sandbox; and
                    (I) states the agreement of the eligible firm to 
                abide by any condition that either of the Commissions 
                may impose for engaging in an eligible innovative 
                activity in the Sandbox.
            (2) Deadline for decision.--Not later than 180 business 
        days after the date on which an eligible firm submits an 
        application under this subsection, the Commission or 
        Commissions, as applicable, shall make a decision with respect 
        to the application, after which the eligible firm submitting 
        the application may commence eligible innovative activities in 
        the Sandbox unless the application is denied.
            (3) Updates and status reports.--Each eligible firm shall 
        submit to the Commission or Commissions, as applicable, on a 
        semi-annual basis while participating in the Sandbox, an 
        updated application that--
                    (A) describes any material changes to the 
                information originally provided under paragraph (1); 
                and
                    (B) reports the progress of the eligible firm 
                toward the stated exit objective described in paragraph 
                (1)(F), including milestones achieved, remaining 
                impediments, and any pending requests for official 
                action before the applicable Commission or the 
                Commissions.
            (4) Unredacted and redacted versions.--
                    (A) In general.--An eligible firm that submits an 
                initial or updated application under this subsection 
                may submit to the applicable Commission or the 
                Commissions an unredacted version, together with a 
                request for confidential treatment, pursuant to 
                procedures the applicable Commission shall establish 
                that are modeled on the rules of that Commission 
                relating to the confidential treatment of information, 
                which shall include--
                            (i) for the Securities and Exchange 
                        Commission, sections 200.83, 230.406, and 
                        240.24b-2 of title 17, Code of Federal 
                        Regulations, or any successor regulations; and
                            (ii) for the Commodity Futures Trading 
                        Commission, section 145.9 of title 17, Code of 
                        Federal Regulations, or any successor 
                        regulations.
                    (B) Omitted information.--An eligible firm may omit 
                information granted confidential treatment under 
                subparagraph (A) from any public posting under 
                subsection (h) in accordance with the procedures 
                established under subparagraph (A).
                    (C) Indication of confidential information.--Any 
                omission in a public posting under subsection (h) shall 
                be clearly indicated by brackets with a prominent 
                legend stating that--
                            (i) confidential information has been 
                        omitted; and
                            (ii) an unredacted version has been filed 
                        with the applicable Commission or the 
                        Commissions.
    (f) Duration of Participation.--
            (1) Duration.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), an 
        eligible firm may participate in the Sandbox for a period of 
        not more than 2 years, provided that the eligible firm does not 
        exceed the ceilings established under subsection (d)(2).
            (2) Extension.--
                    (A) Sole jurisdiction.--If an eligible innovative 
                activity is subject only to the jurisdiction of 1 
                Commission, that Commission may extend participation by 
                an eligible firm in the Sandbox by not more than 1 
                additional year, if that Commission determines that the 
                eligible firm--
                            (i) is actively pursuing the exit objective 
                        described in subsection (e)(1)(F) in good 
                        faith;
                            (ii) is making demonstrable progress toward 
                        achieving such an exit; and
                            (iii) establishes that such an extension is 
                        necessary to achieve such an exit.
                    (B) Joint jurisdiction.--Where an eligible 
                innovative activity is subject to the jurisdiction of 
                both Commissions, an extension of participation by an 
                eligible firm in the Sandbox by not more than 1 
                additional year shall be by joint order of the 
                Commissions after making the findings described in 
                clauses (i) through (iii) of subparagraph (A).
    (g) Conditions and Enforcement.--
            (1) Conditions.--An eligible firm shall comply with 
        applicable regulatory conditions approved by the applicable 
        Commission or the Commissions under subsection (e)(1)(B), which 
        shall be consistent with applicable Federal and State anti-
        fraud laws.
            (2) Monitoring.--The Commissions shall monitor Sandbox 
        activities and enforce compliance with applicable regulatory 
        conditions and Federal anti-fraud laws.
            (3) Coordination.--
                    (A) In general.--The Commissions shall coordinate 
                supervision, information requests, and examinations to 
                avoid duplication while each Commission retains full 
                authority under the provisions of law that such 
                Commission administers.
                    (B) Cooperation with states.--The Commissions may 
                cooperate with any State in enforcing compliance with 
                applicable regulatory conditions and Federal and State 
                anti-fraud laws with respect to the operation of the 
                Sandbox.
            (4) Self-regulatory organizations.--Each self-regulatory 
        organization shall recognize and respect Sandbox conditions 
        that are applicable to a participant in the Sandbox.
            (5) Cessation of activities.--The Commissions may, at any 
        time during the participation of an eligible firm in the 
        Sandbox, disqualify the eligible firm from continued 
        participation in the Sandbox, order the eligible firm to cease 
        engaging in a permitted activity in the Sandbox, revoke a grant 
        of exemptive relief, or impose additional or more stringent 
        conditions on continuing participation or engagement in a 
        permitted activity in the Sandbox, if the Commissions find that 
        the eligible firm has failed to comply with--
                    (A) the requirements of this section;
                    (B) the terms or conditions of participation 
                established by the Commissions; or
                    (C) other applicable law.
    (h) Public Disclosure.--
            (1) Initial posting.--Each eligible firm shall post, in a 
        prominent location on a public website of the eligible firm, 
        the information required under subsection (e)(1), subject to 
        confidential treatment under subsection (e)(4), not later than 
        the date on which the notice becomes effective under subsection 
        (e)(3).
            (2) Updates.--Each eligible firm shall post, in the same 
        manner as under paragraph (1), the information required under 
        subsection (e)(3), subject to confidential treatment under 
        subsection (e)(4), concurrently with submission to the 
        applicable Commission or the Commissions.
            (3) Disclosure requirements.--Each post under this 
        subsection shall satisfy the disclosure requirements of both 
        Commissions where the jurisdictions of both Commissions are 
        implicated.
    (i) Use of Data by Commissions.--Each Commission may collect and 
share data from Sandbox activities with the other Commission to inform 
permanent, principles-based regulatory frameworks that advance the 
missions of the Commissions.
    (j) Publication by Commissions.--Not less frequently than annually, 
each Commission shall publish on the public website of the Commission a 
report summarizing the activities conducted under this section, 
including--
            (1) the number and general nature of eligible firms 
        participating in the Sandbox;
            (2) the categories of innovative activities tested;
            (3) the impact of Sandbox participation on innovation, 
        investor protection, market integrity, and the public interest;
            (4) the disclosures posted by eligible firms under 
        subsection (h)(1); and
            (5) exit outcomes, including the types of relief requested 
        and actions taken by the Commissions.
    (k) Relationship of Sandbox Participation to State Law.--
            (1) Limited preemption for sandbox participants.--This 
        section, including participation in the Sandbox, and any 
        exemption or relief granted under this section, shall supersede 
        any State securities or commodities law requiring registration, 
        qualification, or licensing as a condition of engaging in an 
        approved activity or otherwise regulating that activity as a 
        security or commodity.
            (2) State enforcement preserved.--Nothing in this section 
        may be construed to prohibit or limit any State securities or 
        commodities regulator, any State bank regulator, or any State 
        law enforcement agency from conducting an investigation or 
        bringing an administrative, civil, or criminal enforcement 
        action under--
                    (A) a State law prohibiting fraud or deceit, or 
                fraudulent, deceptive, manipulative, unethical, 
                dishonest, or other unlawful conduct or practices, in 
                connection with securities or securities transactions;
                    (B) the anti-fraud provisions of the Commodity 
                Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.) or State commodities 
                laws; or
                    (C) any State law of general applicability, 
                including such a law relating to banking, consumer 
                protection, contracts, property, or criminal conduct.
            (3) Notice filings.--A State may require notice of any 
        document filed with either of the Commissions in connection 
        with participation in the Sandbox, together with consent to 
        service of process and reasonable fees, consistent with section 
        18(c) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77r(c)).

SEC. 502. INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION.

    (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``Commissions'' means 
the Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
    (b) Cooperation.--In order to promote United States leadership in 
effective, reciprocal, and innovative global regulation of digital 
assets, and to advance the strategic economic and policy interests of 
the United States, the Commissions, as appropriate--
            (1) shall consult and coordinate with foreign regulatory 
        authorities or other relevant international organizations on 
        the application of consistent international standards with 
        respect to the regulation of digital assets;
            (2) may enter into such information sharing arrangements as 
        may be determined to be necessary or appropriate in the public 
        interest or for the protection of investors, customers, and 
        users of digital assets;
            (3) shall pursue reciprocal arrangements with foreign 
        regulatory authorities that ensure United States-based digital 
        asset firms, exchanges, and infrastructure providers receive 
        treatment equivalent to that granted to foreign counterparts 
        operating within the United States;
            (4) shall advocate in international fora for the 
        development and adoption of technology-neutral, open standards 
        that preserve lawful access to public distributed ledger 
        infrastructure, support dollar-denominated digital asset usage, 
        and safeguard individual rights, including self-custody and 
        privacy; and
            (5) may, as appropriate, engage in, at the least, 
        cooperative enforcement, supervisory coordination, and joint 
        technical assistance, in a manner that promotes responsible 
        innovation in digital financial markets.
    (c) Cross-border Sandbox.--The Commissions may leverage the 
activities described in paragraphs (1) through (5) of subsection (b) to 
establish or participate in cross-border regulatory sandboxes that 
build upon the CFTC-SEC Micro-Innovation Sandbox established pursuant 
to section 501.

SEC. 503. AUTOMATED REGULATORY COMPLIANCE STUDY.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Automated regulatory compliance.--The term ``automated 
        regulatory compliance'' means the use of technology, including 
        data standards, automation, and distributed ledger or smart 
        contract functionality, to automate, tag, or otherwise 
        streamline regulatory reporting, disclosure, supervisory, or 
        other compliance obligations.
            (2) Innovative.--The term ``innovative'' has the meaning 
        given the term in section 501(a).
    (b) Study Required.--The Comptroller General of the United States 
shall, in consultation with the Department of the Treasury (including 
the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, the Office of Foreign Assets 
Control, and the Office of Financial Research), the Office of the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
the National Credit Union Administration, the Commission, the Commodity 
Futures Trading Commission, the Bureau of Consumer Financial 
Protection, and the Federal Housing Finance Agency, carry out a study 
of distributed ledger-based compliance tools that--
            (1) to the extent feasible, identifies and evaluates--
                    (A) the landscape of existing (as of the day before 
                the date of enactment of this Act) distributed ledger-
                based compliance tools for--
                            (i) statutory and regulatory disclosures;
                            (ii) real-time reporting and audit-trail 
                        logging; and
                            (iii) anti-money-laundering practices, 
                        sanctions screening, and customer-
                        identification checks;
                    (B) the feasibility, benefits, and risks of 
                allowing regulated entities to satisfy applicable 
                regulatory obligations through on-chain, code-based, or 
                other automated mechanisms;
                    (C) the potential for interoperability with 
                automated regulatory compliance mechanisms across and 
                among each of those agencies;
                    (D) the data collection systems of each of those 
                agencies; and
                    (E) standards or taxonomies, or other common data 
                elements, if any, that those agencies could publish or 
                adopt to support the interoperability described in 
                subparagraph (C) in order to ensure consistency and 
                regulatory access;
            (2) recommends pilot programs, guidance, rule changes, or 
        amendments to statutes that would be needed to implement 
        effective automated regulatory compliance approaches and any 
        other related approaches addressed in the study;
            (3) identifies the costs and benefits to issuers of 
        different sizes, secondary market intermediaries, regulators, 
        investors, and other applicable parties, including differential 
        impacts on smaller entities and options to reduce those 
        burdens;
            (4) benchmarks international efforts with respect to 
        automated regulatory compliance mechanisms and consults with 
        any appropriate State, Federal, or foreign regulators; and
            (5) evaluates whether existing (as of the day before the 
        date of enactment of this Act) oversight, enforcement, and 
        liability frameworks are sufficient to--
                    (A) ensure accountability, transparency, fairness, 
                and consumer protection; and
                    (B) prevent misuse of distributed ledger-based 
                compliance tools.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall make 
publicly available a report that includes the results of the study 
conducted under subsection (b).

SEC. 504. REPORT ON LEGISLATIVE RECOMMENDATIONS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
                Affairs of the Senate;
                    (B) the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
                Forestry of the Senate;
                    (C) the Committee on Financial Services of the 
                House of Representatives; and
                    (D) the Committee on Agriculture of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) Federal financial regulator.--The term ``Federal 
        financial regulator'' means--
                    (A) the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
                System;
                    (B) the Commodity Futures Trading Commission;
                    (C) the Department of the Treasury;
                    (D) the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;
                    (E) the Federal Housing Finance Agency;
                    (F) the National Credit Union Administration;
                    (G) the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency;
                    (H) the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection; 
                and
                    (I) the Commission.
    (b) Requirement.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, and every 3 years thereafter for a total of not fewer than 
12 years after the date of enactment of this Act, each Federal 
financial regulator shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
Congress a report that includes--
            (1) a description of the implementation of this Act and the 
        amendments made by this Act (including the adoption of rules 
        and guidance, and the approval or rejection of applications 
        submitted, under this Act and the amendments made by this Act), 
        where applicable to the Federal financial regulator; and
            (2) any legislative recommendations for the further 
        effective implementation of this Act and the amendments made by 
        this Act.

SEC. 505. TOKENIZATION OF SECURITIES.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Tokenization.--The term ``tokenization'' means the 
        process of creating a digital representation of all rights, 
        obligations, or interests in a tangible or intangible asset on 
        a distributed ledger or comparable technology.
            (2) Tokenized.--The term ``tokenized'', with respect to an 
        asset, means that the asset has undergone tokenization.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that States 
should promptly consider and adopt commercial law frameworks under the 
Uniform Commercial Code that provide clear and uniform rules for the 
ownership, control, and enforceability of rights relating to digital 
assets.
    (c) Study.--Not later than 360 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Commission shall conduct a comprehensive study of the 
regulatory treatment of tokenized securities, including custody 
standards, interagency coordination, cross-border coordination, and 
consumer protection.
    (d) Parity in Regulatory Treatment.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), a tokenized 
        security shall be treated, for all regulatory purposes, as the 
        security that the tokenized security represents, except as 
        otherwise provided by--
                    (A) section 106(a); or
                    (B) a rule, regulation, or order issued by the 
                Commission.
            (2) Requirement.--A rule, regulation, or order described in 
        paragraph (1)(B) may only be issued by the Commission to adapt 
        the manner in which the applicable regulatory requirements are 
        satisfied, to the extent necessary or appropriate--
                    (A) in light of the unique technological or other 
                characteristics of digital assets or substantially 
                similar technology; and
                    (B) consistent with--
                            (i) what is necessary or appropriate in the 
                        public interest; and
                            (ii) protecting investors, maintaining 
                        fair, orderly, and efficient markets, and 
                        facilitating capital formation.
    (e) Prohibition on Misrepresentation.--Any statement or omission 
with respect to any material fact that is made by a person in 
connection with the offer, sale, or other representation regarding a 
tokenized security shall be subject to the securities laws, including 
applicable anti-fraud or anti-manipulation provisions under the 
securities laws.
    (f) Agency Action for Tokenized Securities.--
            (1) In general.--The Commission may issue rules governing 
        tokenized securities pursuant to the requirements of this 
        section.
            (2) Requirements.--Rules issued under this subsection may 
        address, consistent with sections 106 and 107, how requirements 
        applicable to an underlying security apply to custody, books 
        and records, reconciliation with transfer agents or other 
        recordkeepers, auditability, settlement finality, treatment of 
        chain reorganizations, and other operational risks arising from 
        the use of distributed ledger technology or comparable 
        technology.
    (g) Rule of Construction Regarding Enforcement.--Nothing in this 
section may be construed to prevent the Commission from enforcing the 
anti-fraud and anti-manipulation provisions of the securities laws, and 
the rules issued under the securities laws, with respect to tokenized 
securities, provided that the elements of those provisions are 
satisfied.
    (h) Savings Clauses.--
            (1) Tokenized security.--Any asset that is a security under 
        the securities laws shall not cease to be a security solely 
        because the asset is issued, recorded, represented, or 
        transferred using distributed ledger technology or comparable 
        technology.
            (2) Effect on state law.--Nothing in this section may be 
        construed, interpreted, or applied in a manner that preempts, 
        supersedes, invalidates, or otherwise affects any State 
        property transfer rules, laws, regulations, or common law 
        principles relating to the transfer or recording of real 
        tangible or intangible assets or interests therein.
            (3) Rulemakings, orders, and other actions.--
        Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, section 
        106 shall apply to any rulemaking, order, or other action of 
        the Commission under this section.
            (4) No limit of ability to offer or sell.--Nothing in this 
        section, or any rule, regulation, or order promulgated under 
        this section, may be construed to limit the ability of any 
        person to offer or sell any tokenized security, consistent with 
        the securities laws.

SEC. 506. VOLUNTARY ADOPTION OF NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS AND 
              TECHNOLOGY POST-QUANTUM CRYPTOGRAPHY STANDARDS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
                Affairs of the Senate;
                    (B) the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
                Forestry of the Senate;
                    (C) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                Transportation of the Senate;
                    (D) the Committee on Financial Services of the 
                House of Representatives;
                    (E) the Committee on Agriculture of the House of 
                Representatives; and
                    (F) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the 
                House of Representatives.
            (2) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Under 
        Secretary of Commerce for Standards and Technology.
    (b) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) Technical standards with respect to digital assets 
        ensure quality, interoperability, and reliability in products, 
        processes, and services and facilitate innovation.
            (2) The digital asset ecosystem should harness standards to 
        solve coordination problems and foster innovation, not through 
        regulation, but through voluntary, market-driven measures.
            (3) Advances in quantum computing threaten existing (as of 
        the day before the date of enactment of this Act) cryptographic 
        standards and the security of digital assets.
    (c) Voluntary Adoption.--The Director, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Homeland Security and the heads of sector risk management 
agencies, as appropriate, shall promote the voluntary adoption and 
deployment of post-quantum cryptography standards, including by--
            (1) disseminating and making publicly available guidance 
        and resources to help organizations adopt and deploy those 
        standards;
            (2) providing technical assistance, as practicable, to 
        entities that are at high risk of quantum cryptography analytic 
        attacks, such as entities determined to be critical 
        infrastructure or digital infrastructure providers; and
            (3) conducting such other activities determined necessary 
        by the Director to promote the adoption and deployment of those 
        standards across the United States.
    (d) Industry Consultation.--In implementing subsection (c), the 
Director shall, at a minimum--
            (1) solicit regular input from a broad range of industry 
        stakeholders regarding the feasibility and practical challenges 
        of adopting the standards described in that subsection;
            (2) facilitate ongoing dialogue between the National 
        Institute of Standards and Technology and industry participants 
        to identify, assess, and address barriers to the adoption of 
        the standards described in that subsection;
            (3) not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, and biennially thereafter until 2035, submit to the 
        appropriate congressional committees a report on the 
        implementation of that subsection, including stakeholder 
        engagement with respect to those actions and continued 
        challenges in adopting the standards described in that 
        subsection; and
            (4) not later than 5 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, make available to the public a report on stakeholder 
        engagement and lessons learned in implementing that subsection.

SEC. 507. INTERNATIONAL COORDINATION TO COMBAT DIGITAL ASSET ILLICIT 
              FINANCE.

    (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``Strategy'' means the 
National Strategy to Combat International Digital Asset Illicit Finance 
submitted under subsection (d).
    (b) Interagency Initiative.--The Secretary of the Treasury, in 
coordination with the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the 
Secretary of Homeland Security, and the heads of such other Federal 
departments and agencies as the President may designate, shall lead an 
interagency initiative to strengthen international cooperation to 
prevent the misuse of digital assets for illicit finance, sanctions 
evasion, terrorist financing, or other national-security threats.
    (c) Objectives.--The initiative established under subsection (b) 
shall--
            (1) engage foreign counterparts, including finance 
        ministries, central banks, and financial intelligence units, to 
        promote anti-money-laundering, sanctions evasion, and counter-
        terrorist financing standards applicable to digital asset 
        activities, consistent with United States standards and the 
        framework established under the Strategy;
            (2) encourage the adoption and enforcement of effective 
        regulatory and supervisory frameworks for digital asset service 
        providers to ensure transparency and prevent illicit use;
            (3) identify and prioritize jurisdictions of concern that 
        present significant risk of facilitating illicit digital asset 
        activity and develop coordinated diplomatic, economic, and law 
        enforcement strategies to address those risks;
            (4) support technical assistance and capacity-building 
        programs for partner jurisdictions to enhance anti-money 
        laundering, sanctions evasion, and counter-terrorist financing 
        supervision, enforcement, and information sharing relating to 
        digital assets; and
            (5) report annually to Congress on progress made toward the 
        objectives described in paragraphs (1) through (4), including a 
        list of cooperative and non-cooperative jurisdictions and any 
        recommendations for additional actions or sanctions.
    (d) National Strategy to Combat International Digital Asset Illicit 
Finance.--Not later than 270 days after the date of enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of the Treasury, in coordination with the Secretary 
of State, the Attorney General, and the Director of National 
Intelligence, shall submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Committee on 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the 
Committee on Financial Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and 
the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives a 
National Strategy to Combat International Digital Asset Illicit 
Finance, which shall--
            (1) assess global vulnerabilities with respect to the 
        digital assets framework set out in the Strategy;
            (2) set measurable goals and timelines for multilateral 
        engagement with respect to digital assets;
            (3) recommend resource and staffing requirements for 
        Treasury attaches, financial intelligence liaisons, and other 
        personnel necessary to implement the Strategy; and
            (4) identify standards for combating money laundering, 
        sanctions evasion, and terrorist financing with respect to 
        digital asset activities applicable to foreign jurisdictions, 
        which shall be informed by United States law, regulation, and 
        supervisory standards, including standards relating to--
                    (A) anti-money laundering and countering the 
                financing of terrorism laws and regulations that 
                identify, prioritize, and mitigate illicit finance 
                threats, including preventive measures for financial 
                institutions and other entities covered by those laws 
                and regulations, including measures relating to 
                customer due diligence, recordkeeping, internal 
                controls, and the reporting of suspicious transactions;
                    (B) money laundering offenses, asset seizure, and 
                confiscation to recover proceeds of crime;
                    (C) terrorist financing and proliferation-financing 
                offenses and related targeted financial sanctions; and
                    (D) regulation, supervision, and enforcement by 
                competent authorities, including financial 
                intelligence, law enforcement, and sanctions measures.

SEC. 508. ANNUAL REPORT ON FOREIGN DIGITAL ASSET TRADING VOLUME, 
              COMPLIANCE WITH UNITED STATES STANDARDS AND REMEDIATION 
              ACTIONS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, and annually thereafter for a period of 4 years, the 
Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to the Committee on Banking, 
Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Financial 
Services of the House of Representatives a report that--
            (1) lists the top 20 foreign jurisdictions by volume of 
        digital asset trading activity on foreign digital asset service 
        providers during the calendar year immediately preceding the 
        year of the report;
            (2) assesses the degree to which each foreign jurisdiction 
        listed under paragraph (1) has implemented anti-money 
        laundering, sanctions evasion, and counter-terrorist financing 
        laws, regulations, or standards applicable to digital asset 
        activities consistent with the standards and framework 
        identified under the National Strategy to Combat International 
        Digital Asset Illicit Finance submitted under section 507; and
            (3) identifies foreign jurisdictions with--
                    (A) material deficiencies in the implementation or 
                enforcement of the standards described in paragraph 
                (2); and
                    (B) trading volumes that present systemic illicit 
                finance risk to the United States.
    (b) Form.--Each report required under subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex, as 
appropriate.
    (c) Remediation and Engagement Report.--For each foreign 
jurisdiction identified pursuant to subsection (a)(3), the Secretary of 
the Treasury shall include in the applicable report--
            (1) a description of bilateral diplomatic, regulatory, or 
        law enforcement engagements undertaken during the calendar year 
        immediately preceding the year in which the report is submitted 
        to remedy the deficiencies of the foreign jurisdiction;
            (2) a summary of actions taken by the United States 
        individually, or in conjunction with any applicable 
        international body, to identify high-risk or non-cooperative 
        jurisdictions with respect to digital asset illicit finance, 
        including public statements identifying those jurisdictions and 
        measures to support their remediation;
            (3) any commitments obtained from the foreign jurisdiction 
        to address identified deficiencies, including timeliness and 
        benchmarks; and
            (4) an assessment of progress made toward full 
        implementation of the standards identified under the National 
        Strategy to Combat International Digital Asset Illicit Finance 
        submitted under section 507.

SEC. 509. AI INNOVATION LABS.

    (a) Definitions.--
            (1) AI test project.--The term ``AI test project'' means a 
        financial product, service, or activity--
                    (A) that makes substantial use of artificial 
                intelligence;
                    (B) that is, or may be, subject to a Federal 
                regulation or Federal statute; and
                    (C) for which a regulated entity submits an 
                application for the waiver or modification of an 
                applicable regulation subject to an alternative 
                compliance strategy.
            (2) Appropriate financial regulatory agency.--The term 
        ``appropriate financial regulatory agency'' means--
                    (A) the appropriate Federal banking agency, as 
                defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
                Act (12 U.S.C. 1813), with respect to an institution 
                described in subsection (q) of that section;
                    (B) the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, 
                with respect to a covered person, as defined in section 
                1002 of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 
                (12 U.S.C. 5481), that does not have an appropriate 
                financial regulatory agency under subparagraph (A), 
                (C), or (D) of this paragraph;
                    (C) the National Credit Union Administration, with 
                respect to an insured credit union, as defined in 
                section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act (12 U.S.C. 
                1752); and
                    (D) the Federal Housing Finance Agency, with 
                respect to--
                            (i) a Federal Home Loan Bank;
                            (ii) the Federal Home Loan Bank System;
                            (iii) the Federal National Mortgage 
                        Association; and
                            (iv) the Federal Home Loan Mortgage 
                        Corporation.
            (3) Artificial intelligence; ai.--The terms ``artificial 
        intelligence'' and ``AI'' have the meaning given the term 
        ``artificial intelligence'' in section 5002 of the National 
        Artificial Intelligence Initiative Act of 2020 (15 U.S.C. 
        9401).
            (4) Financial product or service.--The term ``financial 
        product or service''--
                    (A) has the meaning given the term in section 1002 
                of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (12 
                U.S.C. 5481);
                    (B) includes--
                            (i) activities that are financial in 
                        nature, as defined in section 4(k)(4) of the 
                        Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
                        1843(k)(4)); and
                            (ii) any financial product or service 
                        provided by a person regulated by the 
                        Commission, as defined in section 1002 of the 
                        Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 (12 
                        U.S.C. 5481); and
                    (C) does not include the business of insurance.
            (5) Financial regulatory agency.--The term ``financial 
        regulatory agency'' means--
                    (A) the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
                System;
                    (B) the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation;
                    (C) the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency;
                    (D) the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection;
                    (E) the National Credit Union Administration; and
                    (F) the Federal Housing Finance Agency.
            (6) Regulated entity.--The term ``regulated entity'' means 
        an entity regulated by any financial regulatory agency.
    (b) Use of Artificial Intelligence by Regulated Financial 
Entities.--
            (1) AI innovation labs.--
                    (A) Establishment.--Each financial regulatory 
                agency shall establish, or identify an office, 
                division, or department of the agency that shall serve 
                as, an AI Innovation Lab to enable regulated entities 
                to experiment with AI test projects without unnecessary 
                or unduly burdensome regulation or expectation of 
                enforcement actions, pursuant to the approval of an 
                application under subparagraph (B).
                    (B) Applications.--
                            (i) Submission.--
                                    (I) In general.--On and after the 
                                date that is 1 year after the date of 
                                enactment of this Act, a regulated 
                                entity may submit to the appropriate 
                                financial regulatory agency an 
                                application, on a form determined by 
                                the appropriate financial regulatory 
                                agency, to engage in an AI test project 
                                through the AI Innovation Lab 
                                established or identified under 
                                subparagraph (A).
                                    (II) Contents.--An application 
                                submitted under subclause (I) shall 
                                include--
                                            (aa) a description of the 
                                        AI test project proposed to be 
                                        carried out by the regulated 
                                        entity;
                                            (bb) an alternative 
                                        compliance strategy that--

                                                    (AA) identifies a 
                                                regulation issued by 
                                                the appropriate 
                                                financial regulatory 
                                                agency that the 
                                                regulated entity 
                                                requests be waived or 
                                                modified; and

                                                    (BB) proposes an 
                                                alternative method for 
                                                the regulated entity to 
                                                comply with the 
                                                regulation, including 
                                                an explanation as to 
                                                why the alternative 
                                                method is essential to 
                                                the operation of the 
                                                entity and how the 
                                                regulated entity would 
                                                effectively manage 
                                                risks associated with 
                                                the AI test project;

                                            (cc) an explanation of how 
                                        under the strategy described in 
                                        item (aa), the AI test 
                                        project--

                                                    (AA) would serve 
                                                the public interest, 
                                                improve consumer or 
                                                investor access to a 
                                                financial product or 
                                                service, or promote 
                                                consumer or investor 
                                                protection;

                                                    (BB) would enhance 
                                                efficiency or 
                                                operations, foster 
                                                innovation or 
                                                competitiveness, 
                                                improve risk management 
                                                and security, or 
                                                enhance regulatory 
                                                compliance;

                                                    (CC) would not 
                                                present a systemic risk 
                                                to the financial system 
                                                of the United States;

                                                    (DD) is consistent 
                                                with the purposes of 
                                                the anti-money 
                                                laundering and 
                                                countering the 
                                                financing of terrorism 
                                                obligations under 
                                                subchapter II of 
                                                chapter 53 of title 31, 
                                                United States Code; and

                                                    (EE) would not 
                                                present a national 
                                                security risk to the 
                                                United States;

                                            (dd) a proposed date on 
                                        which the AI test project would 
                                        terminate and an explanation as 
                                        to why such termination date 
                                        would be appropriate;
                                            (ee) proposed limitations 
                                        on the size, scope, and growth 
                                        of the AI test project;
                                            (ff) a detailed business 
                                        plan; and
                                            (gg) an estimate of the 
                                        economic impact of the AI test 
                                        project if approved.
                                    (III) Joint applications.--Two or 
                                more regulated entities may submit a 
                                joint application to the same financial 
                                regulatory agency under subclause (I).
                                    (IV) Regulations of other 
                                agencies.--
                                            (aa) In general.--A 
                                        regulated entity may submit an 
                                        application under this 
                                        subparagraph that includes an 
                                        alternative compliance strategy 
                                        for a regulation issued or 
                                        enforced by a financial 
                                        regulatory agency that is not 
                                        the appropriate financial 
                                        regulatory agency for the 
                                        regulated entity.
                                            (bb) Requirements.--An 
                                        application described in item 
                                        (aa) shall be subject to the 
                                        same requirements as an 
                                        application described in 
                                        subclause (II), except that--

                                                    (AA) the regulated 
                                                entity shall submit the 
                                                application to the 
                                                appropriate financial 
                                                regulatory agency and 
                                                the financial 
                                                regulatory agency that 
                                                issued or enforces the 
                                                regulation that is the 
                                                subject of the 
                                                alternative compliance 
                                                strategy; and

                                                    (BB) the AI test 
                                                project may not take 
                                                effect unless the 
                                                appropriate financial 
                                                regulatory agency and 
                                                any other financial 
                                                regulatory agency that 
                                                issued or enforces the 
                                                regulation that is the 
                                                subject of the 
                                                alternative compliance 
                                                strategy jointly 
                                                approve the application 
                                                using the process 
                                                described in clause 
                                                (ii).

                                    (V) Notice.--A regulated entity 
                                that is regulated or supervised by more 
                                than 1 financial regulatory agency 
                                shall provide notice of any application 
                                submitted to the appropriate financial 
                                regulatory agency under this section to 
                                each financial regulatory agency by 
                                which it is regulated or supervised not 
                                later than 5 business days after the 
                                entity submits the application to the 
                                appropriate financial regulatory 
                                agency.
                            (ii) Agency review.--
                                    (I) In general.--Except as provided 
                                in subclause (IV), not later than 120 
                                days after the date on which an 
                                application is submitted to the 
                                appropriate financial regulatory agency 
                                under clause (i), the appropriate 
                                financial regulatory agency shall--
                                            (aa) review the 
                                        application; and
                                            (bb) submit to the 
                                        applicant in writing a 
                                        determination of the agency.
                                    (II) Approval.--
                                            (aa) In general.--If the 
                                        applicant shows that it is more 
                                        likely than not that the 
                                        application meets the 
                                        requirements for establishing 
                                        an alternative compliance 
                                        strategy and satisfies the 
                                        standards described in items 
                                        (bb) and (cc) of clause 
                                        (i)(II), the agency shall 
                                        approve the application and 
                                        notify the applicant in writing 
                                        of--

                                                    (AA) the regulation 
                                                that is the subject of 
                                                the alternative 
                                                compliance strategy;

                                                    (BB) the terms of 
                                                the alternative 
                                                compliance strategy for 
                                                the AI test project;

                                                    (CC) the date on 
                                                which the AI test 
                                                project will terminate;

                                                    (DD) any 
                                                limitations on the 
                                                size, scope, or growth 
                                                of the AI test project; 
                                                and

                                                    (EE) any additional 
                                                limitations or 
                                                conditions on the AI 
                                                test project, as 
                                                determined by the 
                                                appropriate financial 
                                                regulatory agency.

                                            (bb) Effect of approval.--
                                        With respect to an AI test 
                                        project, except as provided in 
                                        item (cc), beginning on the 
                                        date on which an application 
                                        submitted under clause (i) is 
                                        approved and ending on the date 
                                        described in item (aa)(CC)--

                                                    (AA) the 
                                                appropriate financial 
                                                regulatory agency may 
                                                enforce a regulation 
                                                described in item 
                                                (aa)(AA) only in the 
                                                manner set out in the 
                                                alternative compliance 
                                                strategy described in 
                                                item (aa)(BB); and

                                                    (BB) except as 
                                                provided in subclause 
                                                (III), a financial 
                                                regulatory agency that 
                                                is not the appropriate 
                                                financial regulatory 
                                                agency may not enforce 
                                                a regulation described 
                                                in item (aa)(AA).

                                            (cc) Enforcement by another 
                                        financial regulatory agency.--
                                        With respect to an AI test 
                                        project, a financial regulatory 
                                        agency other than the 
                                        appropriate financial 
                                        regulatory agency that approves 
                                        an application under clause 
                                        (i)(IV) may enforce a 
                                        regulation described in item 
                                        (aa)(AA) if the alternative 
                                        compliance strategy described 
                                        in item (aa)(BB) provides for 
                                        enforcement by such financial 
                                        regulatory agency.
                                            (dd) Rule of 
                                        construction.--Nothing in this 
                                        clause may be construed to 
                                        limit the authority of a 
                                        financial regulatory agency to 
                                        take an enforcement action 
                                        against a regulated entity with 
                                        respect to fraud or market 
                                        manipulation or for engaging in 
                                        an unsafe or unsound practice 
                                        relating to an AI test project.
                                    (III) Denial.--
                                            (aa) In general.--If an 
                                        agency denies an application 
                                        submitted under clause (i), the 
                                        agency--

                                                    (AA) shall submit 
                                                to the applicant a 
                                                written notice 
                                                explaining the reason 
                                                for denial; and

                                                    (BB) may not take 
                                                an enforcement action 
                                                related to the proposed 
                                                AI test project against 
                                                the applicant earlier 
                                                than the date that is 
                                                30 days after the date 
                                                on which the agency 
                                                submits the written 
                                                notice described in 
                                                subitem (AA).

                                            (bb) Resubmittals.--Each 
                                        time an application submitted 
                                        under clause (i) is denied, the 
                                        regulated entity--

                                                    (AA) may submit an 
                                                amended application 
                                                after receiving 
                                                feedback from the 
                                                agency making such 
                                                denial; and

                                                    (BB) may not 
                                                resubmit more than 2 
                                                applications that are 
                                                substantially similar 
                                                to the denied 
                                                application.

                                            (cc) Injunctive relief.--
                                        Notwithstanding item (aa)(BB), 
                                        a financial regulatory agency, 
                                        by and through its own 
                                        attorneys, may file a civil 
                                        action in an appropriate United 
                                        States district court to enjoin 
                                        an active AI test project if 
                                        the agency determines that the 
                                        AI test project presents an 
                                        immediate danger to consumers 
                                        or investors or presents a 
                                        risk--

                                                    (AA) to financial 
                                                markets;

                                                    (BB) in the case of 
                                                an AI test project 
                                                engaged in by an 
                                                insured depository 
                                                institution or an 
                                                insured credit union, 
                                                of loss to a Federal 
                                                deposit or share 
                                                insurance fund;

                                                    (CC) of a violation 
                                                of anti-money 
                                                laundering and 
                                                countering the 
                                                financing of terrorism 
                                                obligations under 
                                                subchapter II of 
                                                chapter 53 of title 31, 
                                                United States Code; or

                                                    (DD) to the 
                                                national security of 
                                                the United States.

                                    (IV) Extension.--If the financial 
                                regulatory agency needs additional 
                                time, the agency may extend the 
                                approval deadline by 120 days. After 
                                the expiration of the 120-day extension 
                                period, if the agency has not made a 
                                determination on the application, the 
                                application will automatically be 
                                deemed approved and effective.
                                    (V) Additional information.--Not 
                                later than the initial or extended 
                                approval deadline, as applicable, a 
                                financial regulatory agency may request 
                                additional information from the 
                                applicant.
                            (iii) Data security.--All data supplied by 
                        sponsors of AI test projects to a financial 
                        regulatory agency submitted under this section 
                        shall be stored and maintained in a secure 
                        manner by the financial regulatory agency, 
                        consistent with applicable data security 
                        standards.
                            (iv) Regulations.--Not later than 180 days 
                        after the date of enactment of this Act, each 
                        financial regulatory agency shall promulgate 
                        regulations that--
                                    (I) shall be published in the 
                                Federal Register and provide a 60-day 
                                period for public notice and comment;
                                    (II) include--
                                            (aa) procedures for 
                                        modifying the AI test projects 
                                        that are approved by the 
                                        agency;
                                            (bb) consequences for 
                                        failure to comply with the 
                                        terms of an alternative 
                                        compliance strategy;
                                            (cc) a requirement that an 
                                        AI test project will terminate 
                                        not earlier than 1 year after 
                                        the AI test project is 
                                        approved;
                                            (dd) procedures to extend 
                                        the termination date described 
                                        in item (cc);
                                            (ee) procedures for 
                                        confidentiality; and
                                            (ff) procedures for 
                                        coordinating decisions relating 
                                        to applications submitted 
                                        jointly by multiple regulated 
                                        entities or applications 
                                        submitted to more than one 
                                        financial regulatory agency.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, and each year for 7 years thereafter, 
        each financial regulatory agency shall submit to the Committee 
        on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives 
        an annual report on the outcomes of AI test projects. A report 
        under this subsection may not include the names of 
        participating entities or any proprietary or confidential 
        business information. A report under this subsection shall 
        include aggregated findings, trends, and lessons learned from 
        the AI test projects.
            (3) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
        construed to limit the authority of a financial regulatory 
        agency to take an enforcement action against a regulated entity 
        with respect to fraud or market manipulation relating to an AI 
        test project.

    TITLE VI--PROTECTING SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS AND SOFTWARE INNOVATION

SEC. 601. PROTECTING SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS.

    (a) Amendment to the Securities Act of 1933.--The Securities Act of 
1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 27B 
(15 U.S.C. 77z-2a) the following:

``SEC. 27C. APPLICATION TO SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS.

    ``(a) Distributed Ledger System Defined.--In this section, the term 
`distributed ledger system' has the meaning given the term in section 2 
of the Digital Asset Market Clarity Act.
    ``(b) Application to Software Developers.--Notwithstanding any 
other provision of this Act, a person shall not be subject to this Act 
and the regulations promulgated under this Act solely based on the 
person engaging in any of the following activities, whether singly or 
in combination, in relation to the operation of a distributed ledger 
system or any component thereof:
            ``(1) Compiling network transactions or relaying, 
        searching, sequencing, validating, or acting in a similar 
        capacity.
            ``(2) Providing computational work, operating a node or 
        oracle service, or procuring, offering, or utilizing network 
        bandwidth, or providing other similar incidental services.''.
    (b) Amendment to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.--The 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.) is amended by 
inserting after section 15G (15 U.S.C. 78o-11) the following:

``SEC. 15H. APPLICATION TO SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Constitute.--The term `constitute' means to compile, 
        assemble, integrate, or otherwise combine software components 
        into a complete software system.
            ``(2) Decentralized finance trading protocol.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `decentralized finance 
                trading protocol' means a distributed ledger system 
                through which multiple participants can execute a 
                financial transaction--
                            ``(i) in accordance with an automated rule 
                        or algorithm that is predetermined and non-
                        discretionary; and
                            ``(ii) without reliance on a person other 
                        than the user to maintain custody or control of 
                        the digital assets subject to the financial 
                        transaction.
                    ``(B) Exclusions.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The term `decentralized 
                        finance trading protocol' does not include a 
                        distributed ledger system if--
                                    ``(I) a person or group of persons 
                                under common control or acting pursuant 
                                to an agreement to act in concert has 
                                the authority, directly or indirectly, 
                                through any contract, arrangement, 
                                understanding, relationship, or 
                                otherwise, to control or materially 
                                alter the functionality, operation, or 
                                rules of consensus or agreement of the 
                                distributed ledger system;
                                    ``(II) the distributed ledger 
                                system does not operate, execute, and 
                                enforce its operations and transactions 
                                based solely on pre-established, 
                                transparent rules encoded directly 
                                within the source code of the 
                                distributed ledger system; or
                                    ``(III) a person or group of 
                                persons under common control has the 
                                unilateral authority, via operation of 
                                the distributed ledger system, to 
                                restrict, censor, or prohibit the use 
                                of the distributed ledger system, 
                                including any applicable system-based 
                                user activity.
                            ``(ii) Special rule.--For purposes of 
                        clause (i), a decentralized governance system 
                        shall not be considered to be a person or a 
                        group of persons under common control or acting 
                        pursuant to an agreement to act in concert.
            ``(3) Deploy.--The term `deploy' means to bring software or 
        hardware onto a distributed ledger system for active use.
            ``(4) Digital asset; distributed ledger application; 
        distributed ledger system; distributed ledger protocol; 
        decentralized governance system; smart contract.--The terms 
        `digital asset', `distributed ledger application', `distributed 
        ledger system', `distributed ledger protocol', `decentralized 
        governance system', and `smart contract' have the meanings 
        given those terms in section 2 of the Digital Asset Market 
        Clarity Act.
            ``(5) Decentralized finance messaging system.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `decentralized finance 
                messaging system' means a software application that 
                provides a user with the ability to create or submit an 
                instruction, communication, or message to a 
                decentralized finance trading protocol.
                    ``(B) Additional requirements.--The term 
                `decentralized finance messaging system' does not 
                include any system that provides any person other than 
                the user with--
                            ``(i) control over the funds of the user; 
                        or
                            ``(ii) the authority to execute any of the 
                        transaction of the user.
    ``(b) Application to Software Developers.--Notwithstanding any 
other provision of this Act, a person shall not be subject to this Act 
and the regulations promulgated under this Act solely based on the 
person engaging in any of the following activities, whether singly or 
in combination, in relation to the operation of a distributed ledger 
system or any component thereof:
            ``(1) Compiling network transactions or relaying, 
        searching, sequencing, validating, or acting in a similar 
        capacity.
            ``(2) Providing computational work, operating a node or 
        oracle service, or procuring, offering, or utilizing network 
        bandwidth, or providing other similar incidental services.
            ``(3) Developing, publishing, or constituting--
                    ``(A) a distributed ledger system; or
                    ``(B) software or systems that create or utilize 
                hardware or software, including wallets or other 
                systems, that facilitate the ability of a user to keep, 
                safeguard, or have custody of the digital assets or 
                private keys of the user.
    ``(c) Rule of Construction.--Subsection (b)(3) does not extend to 
any activity covered in any of the activities described in 
subparagraphs (A) through (D) of subsection (d)(1), including activity 
taken following deployment of such software or hardware.
    ``(d) Clarification.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Commission shall, pursuant to notice 
        and comment rulemaking, clarify the circumstances under which a 
        person shall not be subject to this Act by reason of engaging 
        solely in 1 or more of the following activities in relation to 
        the operation of a decentralized finance trading protocol or 
        any component thereof:
                    ``(A) Providing a user interface that enables a 
                user to read and access data.
                    ``(B) Administering, maintaining, or otherwise 
                distributing a decentralized governance system relating 
                to a decentralized finance trading protocol, or a 
                decentralized finance trading protocol.
                    ``(C) Administering, maintaining, or otherwise 
                distributing a decentralized finance messaging system 
                or operating or participating in a smart contract-based 
                liquidity pool in a decentralized finance trading 
                protocol.
                    ``(D) Administering, maintaining, or otherwise 
                distributing software or systems that create or deploy 
                hardware or software, including wallets or other 
                systems, that facilitate the ability of a user to keep, 
                safeguard, or maintain custody of the digital assets or 
                related private keys of the user.
            ``(2) Considerations.--In providing the clarification under 
        paragraph (1) the Commission shall--
                    ``(A) ensure that the rules are consistent with the 
                purposes of the securities laws, including the public 
                interest, the protection of investors, and the 
                maintenance of fair and orderly markets;
                    ``(B) provide that section 108(a) of the Lummis-
                Gillibrand Responsible Financial Innovation Act of 2026 
                shall apply to such rules;
                    ``(C) protect the rights of software developers, 
                publishers, and users to create, publish, and use code 
                and software in a manner consistent with the First 
                Amendment to the Constitution of the United States; and
                    ``(D) provide legal clarity for the development, 
                publication, and operation of distributed ledger 
                systems and the components therein in a manner 
                consistent with the purposes of this section.
            ``(3) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this subsection may 
        be construed to grant the Commission authority over persons, 
        systems, software, or activities that do not otherwise fall 
        within the jurisdiction of the Commission under this Act, or to 
        create a presumption that any such activity is subject to this 
        Act.
    ``(e) Anti-Fraud, Anti-Manipulation, and False Reporting.--The 
determination that a person is not subject to this Act under 
subsections (b) and (d) shall not apply to the anti-fraud, anti-
manipulation, or false reporting enforcement authorities of the 
Commission.
    ``(f) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this Act or the rules and 
regulations promulgated under this Act may be construed to apply any 
requirement of the securities laws to a digital commodity, as defined 
in section 2 of the Digital Asset Market Clarity Act, or expand the 
authority of the Commission beyond that which the Commission had before 
the date of enactment of the Digital Asset Market Clarity Act to 
regulate the activities described in subsection (d)(1).
    ``(g) Federal Preemption.--
            ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, no securities, commodities, or digital assets law of any 
        State (or of any political subdivision of a State) shall apply 
        to an activity described in subsection (b).
            ``(2) Rule of construction.--Nothing in paragraph (1) may 
        be construed to apply to the anti-money laundering, anti-fraud, 
        or anti-manipulation authorities of a State (or of any 
        political subdivision of a State).''.
    (c) Applicability.--This section, and the amendments made by this 
section, shall apply to conduct occurring before, on, or after the date 
of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 602. SAFE HARBOR FOR NONFUNGIBLE TOKENS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Nonfungible token.--The term ``nonfungible token'' 
        means a digital asset recorded on a distributed ledger that--
                    (A) is individually identifiable and 
                distinguishable from any other digital asset;
                    (B) represents ownership of, or rights in, a work 
                of authorship, art, a collectible, a membership, an 
                access credential, a certificate of authenticity, an 
                in-game or in-application item, or another similar 
                specific item or discrete digital or physical good, 
                service, or benefit;
                    (C) is not interchangeable on a 1-to-1 basis with 
                any other token or digital asset; and
                    (D) may be bought, sold, or transferred for 
                consideration.
            (2) Promoter.--The term ``promoter'' means a person or 
        group that manages, controls, or operates an enterprise in 
        which capital is invested, or any person or group acting on 
        behalf of such a person or group with respect to such an 
        enterprise, including an affiliate, agent, or coordinated actor 
        that contributes to the capital raising efforts of the 
        enterprise.
    (b) Safe Harbor.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (3), the 
        offer, sale, resale, transfer, or conveyance of a nonfungible 
        token shall not be deemed to constitute an offer, sale, or 
        distribution of a security or investment contract under the 
        Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.), the Securities 
        Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.), or any equivalent 
        State law, unless the transaction, in substance, involves all 
        of the elements of an investment contract.
            (2) Rules of construction.--Neither of the following shall 
        be considered to be a security under the Securities Act of 1933 
        (15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.) or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
        (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.):
                    (A) The resale or secondary market transfer of a 
                nonfungible token, where the payment for that resale or 
                transfer does not flow to a promoter or is not used to 
                raise new capital for an enterprise.
                    (B) A nonfungible token that serves as a 
                collectible, membership right, event ticket, access 
                credential, or other non-investment-based use case 
                solely because the nonfungible token may appreciate in 
                value or depend in part on the continued efforts or the 
                reputation of the creator or issuer of the nonfungible 
                token.
            (3) Exceptions.--The safe harbor under paragraph (1) shall 
        not apply to--
                    (A) a mass-minted series of items with 
                substantially similar or nearly identical traits that 
                are marketed or sold interchangeably;
                    (B) a fractionalized interest in a nonfungible 
                token; or
                    (C) an interest representing a beneficial or 
                economic claim on a nonfungible token or an asset that 
                a nonfungible token represents.
            (4) Reliance; prospective effect.--
                    (A) Reliance.--A person, other than an originator 
                or related person, that reasonably and in good faith 
                relies on the safe harbor under this subsection shall 
                not be subject to any civil or administrative 
                penalties.
                    (B) Prospective effect.--Any determination by the 
                Commission that the safe harbor under this subsection 
                does not apply to a particular circumstance shall--
                            (i) be prospective only; and
                            (ii) take effect not earlier than 60 days 
                        after the date on which the Commission publicly 
                        posts that determination.

SEC. 603. STUDY ON NONFUNGIBLE TOKENS.

    (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``nonfungible token'' 
has the meaning given the term in section 602.
    (b) Study.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
carry out a study of nonfungible tokens that analyzes--
            (1) the nature, size, role, purpose, and use of nonfungible 
        tokens;
            (2) the similarities and differences between nonfungible 
        tokens and other digital commodities, including digital 
        commodities and payment stablecoins, and how the markets for 
        those digital commodities intersect;
            (3) how nonfungible tokens are minted by issuers and 
        subsequently distributed to purchasers;
            (4) how nonfungible tokens are stored after being purchased 
        by a consumer;
            (5) the interoperability of nonfungible tokens between 
        different distributed ledger systems;
            (6) the scalability of different nonfungible token 
        marketplaces;
            (7) the benefits of nonfungible tokens, including 
        verifiable digital ownership;
            (8) the risks of nonfungible tokens, including--
                    (A) the infringement of intellectual property 
                rights;
                    (B) cybersecurity risks; and
                    (C) market risks;
            (9) whether and how nonfungible tokens have been, or could 
        be, integrated with traditional marketplaces, including 
        marketplaces for music, real estate, gaming, events, and 
        travel;
            (10) whether and how nonfungible tokens have been, or could 
        be, used to facilitate commerce or other activities through the 
        representation of documents, identification, contracts, 
        licenses, and other commercial, governmental, or personal 
        records;
            (11) any risks to traditional markets from the integration 
        described in paragraph (9); and
            (12) the levels and types of illicit activity in 
        nonfungible token markets.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall make 
publicly available a report that includes the results of the study 
required under subsection (b).

SEC. 604. BLOCKCHAIN REGULATORY CERTAINTY ACT.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Blockchain 
Regulatory Certainty Act''.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Developer or provider.--The term ``developer or 
        provider'' means any person or business that creates or 
        publishes software to facilitate the creation of, or provide 
        maintenance to, a distributed ledger, or a service associated 
        with a distributed ledger.
            (2) Distributed ledger service.--The term ``distributed 
        ledger service'' means any information, transaction, or 
        computing service or system that provides or enables access to 
        a distributed ledger system by multiple users, including a 
        service or system that enables users to send, receive, 
        exchange, or store digital assets described by distributed 
        ledger systems.
            (3) Non-controlling developer or provider.--The term ``non-
        controlling developer or provider'' means a developer or 
        provider of a distributed ledger service that, in the regular 
        course of operations, does not have the legal right or the 
        unilateral and independent ability to control, initiate upon 
        demand, or effectuate transactions involving digital assets to 
        which users are entitled, without the approval, consent, or 
        direction of any third party.
    (c) Treatment.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a non-
controlling developer or provider--
            (1) shall not be treated as--
                    (A) a money transmitting business, as defined in 
                section 5330 of title 31, United States Code, and the 
                regulations promulgated under that section; or
                    (B) engaged in money transmitting, as defined in 
                section 1960 of title 18, United States Code; and
            (2) on or after the date of enactment of this Act, shall 
        not be otherwise subject to any registration requirement that 
        is substantially similar to a requirement (as in effect on the 
        day before the date of enactment of this Act) that applies to 
        an entity described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph 
        (1), solely on the basis of--
                    (A) creating or publishing software to facilitate 
                the creation of, or providing maintenance services to, 
                a distributed ledger or a service associated with a 
                distributed ledger;
                    (B) providing hardware or software to facilitate a 
                customer's own custody or safekeeping of the digital 
                assets of the customer; or
                    (C) providing infrastructure support to maintain a 
                distributed ledger service.
    (d) Clarification of Treatment.--Subsection (c) shall not modify 
the application of section 1960(b)(1)(C) of title 18, United States 
Code, to any person (referred to in this subsection as the ``initial 
person'') that acts with the specific intent to transfer, on behalf of 
another person, funds that are known by the initial person to be--
            (1) derived from a criminal offense; or
            (2) intended to be used to promote or support unlawful 
        activity.
    (e) Rules of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
construed--
            (1) to affect whether a developer or provider of a 
        distributed ledger service is otherwise subject to 
        classification or treatment as a money transmitter, or as 
        engaged in money transmitting, under applicable Federal or 
        State law, including laws relating to anti-money laundering or 
        countering the financing of terrorism, based on conduct outside 
        the scope of subsection (c);
            (2) to affect whether a developer or provider is otherwise 
        subject to classification or treatment as a financial 
        institution under subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31, 
        United States Code, this Act, any amendment made by this Act, 
        or any Act enacted after the date of enactment of this Act, 
        based on conduct outside the scope of subsection (c);
            (3) to limit or expand any law pertaining to intellectual 
        property;
            (4) to prevent any State from enforcing any State law that 
        is consistent with this section; or
            (5) to create a cause of action or impose liability under 
        any State or local law that is inconsistent with this section.

SEC. 605. KEEP YOUR COINS ACT.

    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Keep Your 
Coins Act''.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Covered user.--The term ``covered user'' means a United 
        States individual who obtains digital assets to purchase goods 
        or services on behalf of that individual, without regard to the 
        method in which that individual obtained those digital assets.
            (2) Self-hosted wallet.--The term ``self-hosted wallet'' 
        means a digital interface--
                    (A) that is used to secure and transfer digital 
                assets; and
                    (B) under which the owner of digital assets secured 
                and transferred under subparagraph (A) retains 
                independent control over those digital assets.
    (c) Self-Custody.--A Federal agency may not prohibit, restrict, or 
otherwise impair the ability of a covered user to self-custody digital 
assets using a self-hosted wallet or other means to conduct 
transactions for any lawful purpose.
    (d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be construed 
to limit the authority of the Secretary of the Treasury, the 
Commission, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Comptroller of the 
Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the National 
Credit Union Administration to carry out any enforcement action or 
special measure authorized under applicable law, including--
            (1) the Bank Secrecy Act, section 9714 of the Combating 
        Russian Money Laundering Act (31 U.S.C. 5318A note), and 
        section 7213A of the Fentanyl Sanctions Act (21 U.S.C. 2313a); 
        or
            (2) any other law relating to illicit finance, money 
        laundering, terrorism financing, or United States sanctions.

                TITLE VII--PROTECTING CUSTOMER PROPERTY

SEC. 701. CUSTOMER PROPERTY PROTECTIONS FOR ANCILLARY ASSETS AND 
              DIGITAL COMMODITIES IN BANKRUPTCY.

    (a) Definitions for Stockbroker Liquidation.--
            (1) In general.--Section 741 of title 11, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (5) through (9) as 
                paragraphs (7) through (11), respectively;
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (4) as 
                paragraphs (2) through (5), respectively;
                    (C) by inserting before paragraph (2), as so 
                redesignated, the following:
            ``(1) `ancillary asset' has the meaning given that term in 
        section 2 of the Digital Asset Market Clarity Act;'';
                    (D) in paragraph (3), as so redesignated--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A)(vi), by striking 
                        ``and'' at the end;
                            (ii) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as 
                        subparagraph (C);
                            (iii) by inserting after subparagraph (A) 
                        the following:
                    ``(B) entity with whom a person deals as principal 
                or agent and that has a claim against such person on 
                account of a digital commodity or an ancillary asset 
                received, acquired, or held by such person from or for 
                the securities account or accounts of such entity for 1 
                or more of the purposes identified in clauses (i) 
                through (vi) of subparagraph (A) of this paragraph; 
                and''; and
                            (iv) in subparagraph (C), as so 
                        redesignated--
                                    (I) in clause (i)--
                                            (aa) by inserting ``, 
                                        ancillary asset, or digital 
                                        commodity'' after ``security''; 
                                        and
                                            (bb) by inserting ``or 
                                        (B)'' after ``subparagraph 
                                        (A)''; and
                                    (II) in clause (ii), by inserting 
                                ``an ancillary asset, a digital 
                                commodity,'' after ``a security,'';
                    (E) in paragraph (5), as so redesignated, in the 
                matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting 
                ``ancillary asset, digital commodity,'' after ``cash, 
                security,'' each place it appears;
                    (F) by inserting after paragraph (5), as so 
                redesignated, the following:
            ``(6) `digital commodity' has the meaning given that term 
        in section 2 of the Digital Asset Market Clarity Act;''; and
                    (G) in paragraph (8), as so redesignated, in 
                subparagraph (A)(i), by inserting ``, ancillary asset 
                positions, and digital commodities positions'' after 
                ``securities positions''.
    (b) Extent of Customer Claims.--Section 746(b) of title 11, United 
States Code, is amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
striking ``cash or a security'' and inserting ``cash, a security, an 
ancillary asset, or a digital commodity''.
    (c) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 546(e) of title 11, United States Code, is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking ``section 741(7)'' and inserting 
                ``section 741''; and
                    (B) by striking ``section 761(4)'' and inserting 
                ``section 761''.
            (2) Section 561(a) of title 11, United States Code, is 
        amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``section 
                741(7)'' and inserting ``section 741''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``section 
                761(4)'' and inserting ``section 761''.
            (3) Section 752(c) of title 11, United States Code, is 
        amended by striking ``section 741(4)(B)'' and inserting 
        ``section 741(5)(B)''.
    (d) Clarifications.--For the avoidance of doubt--
            (1) nothing in this section or an amendment made by this 
        section may be construed to apply to securities or cash held by 
        a broker-dealer and such assets and related claims shall be 
        governed exclusively by the Securities Investor Protection Act 
        of 1970 (15 U.S.C. 78aaa et seq.);
            (2) nothing in this section or an amendment made by this 
        section may be construed to apply to deposits held by a bank or 
        commodity contracts, which shall be governed by the relevant 
        applicable law; and
            (3) in any liquidation proceeding under subchapter III or 
        IV of chapter 7 of title 11, United States Code, those 
        provisions shall be construed to treat ancillary assets and 
        digital commodities held for customers as customer property 
        governed by title 11, United States Code, and required to be 
        distributed according to such title.

SEC. 702. INSOLVENCY SAFE HARBOR.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Commodity broker; financial institution; financial 
        participant; securities clearing agency; stockbroker.--The 
        terms ``commodity broker'', ``financial institution'', 
        ``financial participant'', ``securities clearing agency'', and 
        ``stockbroker'' have the meanings given those terms in section 
        101 of title 11, United States Code.
            (2) Commodity contract.--The term ``commodity contract'' 
        means a commodity contract described in paragraph (4)(A) of 
        section 761 of title 11, United States Code.
    (b) Safe Harbor.--A purchase, sale, or loan of, a margin loan or 
other extension of credit on, or a repurchase, reverse repurchase, or 
other transaction involving, a unit of a digital commodity occurring 
with a commodity broker, stockbroker, financial institution, financial 
participant, or securities clearing agency shall be deemed to be--
            (1) a commodity contract for purposes of--
                    (A) sections 362(b)(6), 362(o), 546(e), 553, 556, 
                561, and 562 of title 11, United States Code;
                    (B) section 11 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act 
                (12 U.S.C. 1821);
                    (C) section 210 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street 
                Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5390); 
                and
                    (D) section 5(b)(2)(C) of the Securities Investor 
                Protection Act of 1970 (15 U.S.C. 78eee(b)(2)(C)); and
            (2) a margin payment for purposes of section 548(d)(2)(B) 
        of title 11, United States Code.

                    TITLE VIII--CUSTOMER PROTECTION

SEC. 801. EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS.

    The Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission shall 
require digital asset intermediaries to provide clear and accessible 
educational materials to the public, including--
            (1) an overview of how distributed ledger systems function;
            (2) a description of common risks associated with digital 
        assets;
            (3) a description of the differences between digital asset 
        markets and traditional financial markets;
            (4) information on reporting and disclosure requirements 
        related to digital asset transactions and securities which may 
        be accompanied by network tokens or ancillary assets; and
            (5) guidance on recognizing fraudulent schemes and 
        instructions for reporting suspected fraud.

SEC. 802. SAVINGS CLAUSES.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Digital consumer token.--The term ``digital consumer 
        token'' means a digital asset that is primarily acquired for a 
        consumptive purpose, including redemption for a specified good 
        or service at the time of sale or within a reasonable time 
        after sale, as defined by the Federal Trade Commission pursuant 
        to rule.
            (2) Nonfungible token.--The term ``nonfungible token'' 
        means a digital asset recorded on a distributed ledger that--
                    (A) is individually identifiable and 
                distinguishable from any other digital asset;
                    (B) represents ownership of, or rights in, a work 
                of authorship, art, a collectible, a membership, an 
                access credential, a certificate of authenticity, an 
                in-game or in-application item, or another similar 
                specific item or discrete digital or physical good, 
                service, or benefit;
                    (C) is not interchangeable on a 1-to-1 basis with 
                any other token or digital asset; and
                    (D) may be bought, sold, or transferred for 
                consideration.
    (b) Federal Trade Commission.--Nothing in this Act, or any 
amendment made by this Act, may be construed as limiting or abridging 
the jurisdiction of the Federal Trade Commission with respect to--
            (1) investigations or enforcement actions under the Federal 
        Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.) relating to unfair 
        or deceptive acts or practices by persons relating to commerce 
        in nonfungible tokens or digital consumer tokens, including 
        deceptive acts with respect to advertising and endorsements 
        relating to nonfungible tokens and digital consumer tokens;
            (2) highlighting best practices relating to commerce in 
        nonfungible tokens or digital consumer tokens;
            (3) promoting responsible innovation;
            (4) consumer education relating to fraudulent digital asset 
        activity; or
            (5) investigating unlawful restraints of trade in the 
        digital asset industry.
    (c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this Act, or any amendment 
made by this Act, may be construed to expand, contract, or otherwise 
affect the jurisdiction or authority with respect to the Federal 
consumer financial laws under the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 
2010 (12 U.S.C. 5481 et seq.), as in effect on the day before the date 
of enactment of this Act, including with respect to subsection (i) or 
(j) of section 1027 of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 
(12 U.S.C. 5517).

SEC. 803. STUDY ON EXPANDING FINANCIAL LITERACY.

    (a) Study.--The Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading 
Commission shall jointly conduct a study to identify--
            (1) the existing (as of the day before the date of 
        enactment of this Act) level of financial literacy among retail 
        digital asset customers;
            (2) methods to improve the timing, content, and format of 
        financial literacy materials regarding digital assets provided 
        by the respective commissions;
            (3) methods to improve coordination between the Commission 
        and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission with other 
        agencies, including the Financial Literacy and Education 
        Commission, nonprofit organizations, and State and local 
        jurisdictions, to better disseminate financial literacy 
        materials;
            (4) the efficacy of current financial literacy efforts with 
        a focus on rural communities and communities with majority-
        minority populations;
            (5) the most useful and understandable relevant 
        information, including clear disclosures, that retail digital 
        asset customers need to make informed financial decisions 
        before engaging with or purchasing a digital asset;
            (6) the most effective public-private partnerships in 
        providing financial literacy regarding digital assets;
            (7) the most relevant metrics to measure successful 
        improvement of the financial literacy of an individual after 
        engaging with financial literacy efforts; and
            (8) in consultation with the Financial Literacy and 
        Education Commission, a strategy (including, to the extent 
        practicable, measurable goals and objectives) to increase 
        financial literacy of investors regarding digital assets.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
shall jointly submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of 
the Senate and the Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on 
Agriculture of the House of Representatives a written report on the 
study required under subsection (a).

SEC. 804. CONSULTATION WITH SIPC REGARDING MANDATORY BROKER-DEALER 
              DISCLOSURES TO INVESTORS CONCERNING THE STATUS OF PAYMENT 
              STABLECOINS AND DIGITAL COMMODITIES.

    (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``payment stablecoin'' 
has the meaning given the term in section 2 of the GENIUS Act (12 
U.S.C. 5901).
    (b) Rules.--Not later than 270 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Commission, after consultation with the Commodity Futures 
Trading Commission and the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, 
shall issue rules requiring written disclosures regarding the treatment 
of customer assets in the event of an insolvency, resolution, or 
liquidation proceeding to be provided by a registered broker or dealer 
to an investor--
            (1) before a digital commodity, a payment stablecoin, or a 
        security involving a unit of a digital commodity is received, 
        acquired, or held by the broker or dealer for the account of 
        the investor; and
            (2) after the provision of the disclosures under paragraph 
        (1), at such frequency as the Commission may prescribe.
    (c) Contents.--The rules issued under subsection (b) shall include, 
as necessary or appropriate for the protection of investors--
            (1) a description of the manner in which any digital 
        commodity, payment stablecoin, or security involving a unit of 
        a digital commodity received, acquired, or held by a broker or 
        dealer for the account of an investor would be treated in an 
        insolvency, resolution, or liquidation proceeding with respect 
        to the broker or dealer under--
                    (A) title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform 
                and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5381 et seq.);
                    (B) the Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 
                (15 U.S.C. 78aaa et seq.); or
                    (C) as applicable, chapter 7 or 11 of title 11, 
                United States Code; and
            (2) how the treatment described in paragraph (1) differs 
        from the treatment of securities and cash received, acquired, 
        or held by the broker or dealer for the account of the 
        applicable investor in the event of an insolvency, resolution, 
        or liquidation proceeding with respect to the broker or dealer 
        under each provision of law described in subparagraph (A), (B), 
        and (C) of paragraph (1).

                        TITLE IX--OTHER MATTERS

SEC. 901. JOINT ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON DIGITAL ASSETS.

    (a) Establishment.--The Commodity Futures Trading Commission and 
the Commission (referred to collectively in this section as the 
``Commissions'') shall jointly establish the Joint Advisory Committee 
on Digital Assets (referred to in this section as the ``Committee'').
    (b) Purpose.--
            (1) In general.--The Committee shall--
                    (A) provide the Commissions with official findings 
                and nonbinding recommendations on--
                            (i) the rules, regulations, oversight, and 
                        other matters of the Commissions relating to 
                        digital assets, including with respect to 
                        regulatory harmonization between the 
                        Commissions;
                            (ii) how to further the regulatory 
                        harmonization of digital asset policy between 
                        the Commissions or areas in which that 
                        harmonization should occur; and
                            (iii) the implementation by the Commissions 
                        of this Act, and the amendments made by this 
                        Act, including with respect to regulatory 
                        harmonization between the Commissions, 
                        memoranda of understanding, and the CFTC-SEC 
                        Micro-Innovation Sandbox established pursuant 
                        to section 501;
                    (B) develop and share objective methods and best 
                practices for evaluating digital asset networks and 
                activities, including, as appropriate, technical 
                features, economic design, and implications for market 
                integrity, investor protection, and operational 
                resilience; and
                    (C) issue nonbinding recommendations to assist in 
                resolving disputes between the Commissions.
    (c) Review by the Commissions.--Each of the Commissions shall--
            (1) review the findings and nonbinding recommendations 
        provided under subsection (b)(1)(A);
            (2) promptly publish a public statement each time the 
        Committee submits a finding or nonbinding recommendation to the 
        applicable Commission under subsection (b)(1)(A) that--
                    (A) assesses the finding or recommendation; and
                    (B) if applicable, discloses the action or decision 
                not to take action; and
            (3) provide the Committee with a formal written response 
        not later than 90 days after the date of submission of a 
        finding or nonbinding recommendation under subsection 
        (b)(1)(A).
    (d) Membership and Leadership.--
            (1) Non-federal members; size and composition.--
                    (A) In general.--The Commissions shall appoint to 
                the Committee not more than 14 nongovernmental voting 
                members who--
                            (i) represent a broad spectrum of 
                        interests, equally divided between the 
                        Commissions; and
                            (ii) serve at the pleasure of the 
                        appointing Commission.
                    (B) Specific members.--For each of the Commissions, 
                the appointees under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph 
                shall include--
                            (i) 2 individuals described in paragraph 
                        (2)(A);
                            (ii) 2 individuals described in paragraph 
                        (2)(B);
                            (iii) 1 individual described in paragraph 
                        (2)(C);
                            (iv) 2 individuals described in paragraph 
                        (2)(D); and
                            (v) 1 individual described in paragraph 
                        (2)(E).
            (2) Members described.--A member described in this 
        paragraph is--
                    (A) an individual who is employed by, or is a 
                related person with respect to, a digital asset market 
                participant;
                    (B) a person registered with either of the 
                Commissions and that is engaged in activities relating 
                to digital assets;
                    (C) an individual engaged in academic research 
                relating to digital assets;
                    (D) a retail user of digital assets; and
                    (E) a State securities regulator.
            (3) NIST.--The Director of the National Institute of 
        Standards and Technology, or the designee of the Director, 
        shall serve in an advisory capacity as a nonvoting, ex officio 
        member of the Committee, and shall not be excluded from any 
        proceedings, meetings, discussions, or deliberations of the 
        Committee, except that the chair of the Committee, upon an 
        affirmative vote of the Committee, may exclude the Director or 
        the designee from any proceedings, meetings, discussions, or 
        deliberations of the Committee when necessary to safeguard and 
        promote the free exchange of confidential information.
            (4) Co-designated federal officers; commissioner support.--
                    (A) Co-designated federal officers.--
                            (i) In general.--Each Commission shall 
                        designate 1 Federal officer to serve as a co-
                        designated Federal officer of the Committee.
                            (ii) Shared duties.--The duties required by 
                        section 1009(e) of title 5, United States Code, 
                        to be carried out by a designated officer or 
                        employee of the Federal Government with respect 
                        to the Committee shall be shared by the Federal 
                        officers of the Committee who are co-designated 
                        under clause (i).
                    (B) Commissioner support.--
                            (i) In general.--Commissioners of the 
                        Commissions may be supported by officers or 
                        employees of the respective Commission who may 
                        prepare or transmit materials, coordinate with 
                        agency staff, liaise with Committee leadership, 
                        propose agenda items, gather information, and 
                        otherwise support the participation of that 
                        commissioner in Committee business, in an ex 
                        officio, nonvoting capacity.
                            (ii) Rule of construction.--An officer or 
                        employee described in clause (i) shall not be 
                        considered to be a member of the Committee for 
                        purposes of chapter 10 of title 5, United 
                        States Code.
                    (C) Information sharing.--The co-designated Federal 
                officers under subparagraph (A) and the officers or 
                employees of the respective Commissions providing 
                support under subparagraph (B) shall share information 
                about digital asset activities under this Act, in 
                accordance with section 902, including with regard to 
                preventing insider trading.
            (5) Committee leadership.--The members of the Committee 
        shall elect, from among the membership of the Committee, a 
        secretary and an assistant secretary.
            (6) Rotating chair.--The chair and vice chair of the 
        Committee shall rotate annually between the Commissions, with 
        the Commission designating the chair in even-numbered calendar 
        years, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission designating the 
        chair in odd-numbered calendar years, the Commission 
        designating the vice chair in odd-numbered calendar years, and 
        the Commodity Futures Trading Commission designating the vice 
        chair in even-numbered calendar years.
            (7) Terms; vacancies; holdover.--
                    (A) In general.--Each non-Federal member of the 
                Committee shall be appointed for a term of 4 years.
                    (B) Service until new appointment.--A member of the 
                Committee may continue to serve after the expiration of 
                the term of the member until a successor is appointed.
                    (C) Vacancies.--A vacancy with respect to 
                membership in the Committee shall be filled only for 
                the remainder of the applicable term.
                    (D) Reappointment.--A member of the Committee may 
                be reappointed.
            (8) Status of members.--A member of the Committee appointed 
        under paragraph (1) shall not be deemed to be an employee or 
        agent of either of the Commissions solely by reason of 
        membership on the Committee.
    (e) No Compensation for Committee Members.--
            (1) Non-federal members.--All Committee members appointed 
        under subsection (d)(1) shall--
                    (A) serve without compensation; and
                    (B) while away from the home or regular place of 
                business of the member in the performance of services 
                for the Committee, be allowed travel expenses, 
                including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the same 
                manner as persons employed intermittently in Government 
                service are allowed expenses under section 5703 of 
                title 5, United States Code.
            (2) No compensation for co-designated federal officers.--
        The Federal officers co-designated under subsection (d)(4)(A) 
        shall serve without compensation in addition to that received 
        for their services as officers or employees of the United 
        States.
    (f) Frequency of Meetings.--The Committee shall meet--
            (1) not less frequently than twice annually; and
            (2) at such other times as either of the Commissions may 
        request.
    (g) Procedures; Advisory Nature.--
            (1) In general.--The Committee shall operate pursuant to 
        chapter 10 of title 5, United States Code, except as otherwise 
        expressly provided by this section.
            (2) Advisory nature of recommendations.--The 
        recommendations of the Committee are advisory in nature, shall 
        not create any legal rights or obligations, and shall not limit 
        or delay the independent authority of either of the 
        Commissions.
    (h) Time Limits.--The Commissions shall--
            (1) not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, adopt a joint charter for the Committee;
            (2) not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, make the appointments required under subsection 
        (d)(1); and
            (3) not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, hold the initial meeting of the Committee.
    (i) Funding.--Subject to the availability of funds, the Commissions 
shall jointly fund the Committee.
    (j) Duration and Renewal.--
            (1) Initial period.--The Committee shall remain in effect 
        for 10 years beginning on the date of enactment of this Act.
            (2) Renewal thereafter.--At the conclusion of the 10-year 
        period described in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) the Committee shall be subject to subsections 
                (a) and (b) of section 1013 of title 5, United States 
                Code; and
                    (B) the Commissions may renew the Committee for 
                successive 2-year periods by publishing a notice in the 
                Federal Register, consistent with chapter 10 of title 
                5, United States Code.

SEC. 902. MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING.

    (a) Memorandum of Understanding.--The Commission shall enter into a 
memorandum of understanding with the Commodity Futures Trading 
Commission to ensure--
            (1) coordinated supervision and enforcement with respect to 
        registrants of the Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading 
        Commission, including with regard to--
                    (A) the anti-fraud and anti-manipulation 
                authorities of the Commission, such as with regard to 
                insider trading; and
                    (B) the market integrity authorities of the 
                Commodity Futures Trading Commission; and
            (2) appropriate information sharing between the Commission 
        and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to further the 
        purposes of and compliance with this Act, the amendments made 
        by this Act, the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.) 
        (as amended by this Act), the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
        (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.) (as amended by this Act), and the 
        Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.).
    (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be construed 
to limit the anti-fraud, anti-manipulation, or false reporting 
enforcement authorities of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
with respect to a contract of sale of a commodity and persons effecting 
such contracts.
    (c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this Act, or any amendment 
made by this Act, may be construed to limit or prevent the continued 
application of applicable law regarding the insider trading of 
securities, including digital asset securities, including section 21A 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78u-1).

SEC. 903. FINCEN APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--For the purposes of 
developing policy relating to digital assets, acquiring information 
technology resources, funding the operations described in sections 202 
and 203 of this Act, and enforcement of the laws within its 
jurisdiction relating to digital assets, there is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the 
Department of the Treasury the following:
            (1) $30,000,000 for fiscal year 2026, to remain available 
        until September 30, 2027.
            (2) $30,000,000 for fiscal year 2027, to remain available 
        until September 30, 2028.
            (3) $30,000,000 for fiscal year 2028, to remain available 
        until September 30, 2029.
            (4) $30,000,000 for fiscal year 2029, to remain available 
        until September 30, 2030.
            (5) $30,000,000 for fiscal year 2030, to remain available 
        until September 30, 2031.
    (b) Incentive Premium for Highly Qualified Individuals.--
Notwithstanding any other provision of law or regulation, the Director 
of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the Department of the 
Treasury may pay an annual incentive premium of not more than 20 
percent of the annual rate of basic pay for a position if necessary to 
attract highly qualified individuals for positions that the Director 
has certified to the Director of the Office of Personnel Management 
reflect the needs of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.

SEC. 904. BUILD NOW ACT.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Covered recipient.--The term ``covered recipient'' 
        means a metropolitan city or urban county, as those terms are 
        defined in section 102 of the Housing and Community Development 
        Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302), that receives funds under section 
        106.
            (2) Current annual growth rate.--The term ``current annual 
        growth rate'', with respect to an eligible recipient and a 
        fiscal year, means the average annual percentage increase in 
        the number of housing units in the jurisdiction of the eligible 
        recipient, as calculated by the Secretary, during the period--
                    (A) beginning with the third quarter of the sixth 
                preceding fiscal year; and
                    (B) ending with the third quarter of the preceding 
                fiscal year.
            (3) Eligible recipient.--The term ``eligible recipient'' 
        means any covered recipient unless--
                    (A)(i) the median Small Area Fair Market Rent in 
                the jurisdiction of the covered recipient is at or 
                below the 60th percentile of median Small Area Fair 
                Market Rents in the jurisdictions of all covered 
                recipients; and
                    (ii) the median home value in the jurisdiction of 
                the covered recipient is below the median home value 
                for the United States;
                    (B) the annual rental vacancy rate in the 
                jurisdiction of the covered recipient is greater than 
                the national annual rental vacancy rate for the most 
                recent year available, as published by the Bureau of 
                the Census;
                    (C) during the 1-year period preceding the date on 
                which the Secretary allocates funds under section 106, 
                the jurisdiction of the covered recipient has been the 
                subject of a major disaster or emergency declaration 
                under section 401 or 501, respectively, of the Robert 
                T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance 
                Act (42 U.S.C. 5170, 5191); or
                    (D) the covered recipient lacks the legal authority 
                to enact or update zoning and permitting ordinances.
            (4) Extremely high-growth recipient.--The term ``extremely 
        high-growth recipient'' means an eligible recipient for which 
        the current annual growth rate is at or above 4 percent.
            (5) Housing growth improvement rate.--The term ``housing 
        growth improvement rate'', with respect to an eligible 
        recipient and a fiscal year, means the quotient of--
                    (A)(i) the current annual growth rate of the 
                eligible recipient, minus
                    (ii) the prior annual growth rate of the eligible 
                recipient; and
                    (B) the sum obtained by adding the absolute values 
                of the current annual growth rate and the prior annual 
                growth rate of the eligible recipient.
            (6) Prior annual growth rate.--The term ``prior annual 
        growth rate'', with respect to an eligible recipient and a 
        fiscal year, means the average annual percentage increase in 
        the number of housing units in the jurisdiction of the eligible 
        recipient, as calculated by the Secretary, during the period--
                    (A) beginning with the third quarter of the 11th 
                preceding fiscal year; and
                    (B) ending with the third quarter of the sixth 
                preceding fiscal year.
            (7) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Housing and Urban Development.
            (8) Section 106.--The term ``section 106'' means section 
        106 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 
        U.S.C. 5306).
    (b) Adjustments to Community Development Block Grant Allocations.--
            (1) In general.--In allocating amounts to an eligible 
        recipient under section 106 for a fiscal year, the Secretary 
        shall adjust the allocation based on the housing growth 
        improvement rate of the eligible recipient, in accordance with 
        paragraph (2) of this subsection.
            (2) Adjustments.--
                    (A) Housing growth improvement rate at or above 
                median; extremely high-growth recipients.--
                            (i) In general.--If, with respect to a 
                        fiscal year for which the allocation under 
                        section 106 is being determined, the housing 
                        growth improvement rate for an eligible 
                        recipient is at or above the median housing 
                        growth improvement rate for all eligible 
                        recipients other than extremely high-growth 
                        recipients, or if an eligible recipient is an 
                        extremely high-growth recipient, the Secretary 
                        shall allocate to the eligible recipient for 
                        that fiscal year, in addition to the amount 
                        that would otherwise be allocated to the 
                        eligible recipient under section 106, a bonus 
                        amount, as determined under clause (ii) of this 
                        subparagraph.
                            (ii) Bonus amount.--For purposes of clause 
                        (i), the bonus amount for an eligible recipient 
                        for a fiscal year shall be equal to the product 
                        of--
                                    (I) the aggregate amount by which 
                                allocations to eligible recipients are 
                                decreased under subparagraph (B) for 
                                that fiscal year; and
                                    (II) the quotient of--
                                            (aa) the number of housing 
                                        units, as of the third quarter 
                                        of the preceding fiscal year, 
                                        in the jurisdiction of the 
                                        eligible recipient, as 
                                        calculated by the Secretary; 
                                        and
                                            (bb) the number of housing 
                                        units, as of the third quarter 
                                        of the preceding fiscal year, 
                                        in the jurisdictions of all 
                                        eligible recipients that 
                                        receive a bonus amount under 
                                        this paragraph, as calculated 
                                        by the Secretary.
                    (B) Housing growth improvement rate below median.--
                If, with respect to a fiscal year for which the 
                allocation under section 106 is being determined, the 
                housing growth improvement rate for an eligible 
                recipient is below the median housing growth 
                improvement rate for all eligible recipients other than 
                extremely high-growth recipients, the Secretary shall 
                decrease the amount that would otherwise be allocated 
                to the eligible recipient under section 106 for that 
                fiscal year by 10 percent.
    (c) Calculation of Housing Units.--
            (1) Housing and urban development requirements.--In 
        calculating the number of housing units in the jurisdiction of 
        an eligible recipient under any provision of this section, the 
        Secretary shall--
                    (A) use the Current Address Count Listing Files and 
                other data products, as needed, of the Bureau of the 
                Census tabulated from the Master Address File; and
                    (B) make calculations at the block level, using 
                boundaries that reflect the most current boundaries.
            (2) Census bureau and postal service requirements.--The 
        Bureau of the Census and the United States Postal Service shall 
        provide any relevant data to the Secretary upon request to 
        assist the Secretary in making a calculation described in 
        paragraph (1).
            (3) Adjustment of calculation periods.--The Secretary may 
        adjust the calculation periods under subparagraphs (A) and (B) 
        of subsection (a)(2), subparagraphs (A) and (B) of subsection 
        (a)(6), and items (aa) and (bb) of subsection (b)(2)(A)(ii)(II) 
        by not more than 2 months to achieve alignment with the data 
        provided by the Bureau of the Census.
    (d) Annual Report on Housing Growth Improvement Rate.--Before 
allocating funds under section 106 for a fiscal year, the Secretary 
shall publish a report that--
            (1) includes the housing growth improvement rate for each 
        eligible recipient; and
            (2) lists, for the most recent fiscal year for which 
        allocations were made under section 106--
                    (A) the eligible recipients that received a bonus 
                amount under subsection (b)(2)(A) of this section; and
                    (B) the eligible recipients for which the 
                allocation under section 106 was decreased under 
                subsection (b)(2)(B) of this section.
    (e) Notification; Implementation Dates.--
            (1) Notification.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                notify each eligible recipient of the recipient's 
                housing growth improvement rate and whether that 
                housing growth improvement rate is above, at, or below 
                the median housing growth improvement rate for all 
                eligible recipients other than extremely high-growth 
                recipients.
                    (B) Guidance.--As part of the notification under 
                subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall share guidance, 
                including resources developed by the Department of 
                Housing and Urban Development, on best practices and 
                recommendations for policies to reduce regulatory 
                barriers to housing and increase housing supply.
            (2) Implementation dates.--Subsection (b) shall take effect 
        beginning with the third full fiscal year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act and remain in effect through fiscal year 
        2043.
            (3) No effect on previous appropriations.--This section 
        shall not apply to amounts appropriated before the date of 
        enactment of this Act.

SEC. 905. RULEMAKINGS.

    Except as otherwise provided, not later than 1 year after the date 
of enactment of this Act, each applicable regulator shall adopt rules 
to carry out this Act, and the amendments made by this Act, through 
appropriate notice and comment rulemaking.

SEC. 906. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This Act, and the amendments made by this Act, shall take effect on 
the date that is 360 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
except that, if a provision of this Act, or an amendment made by this 
Act, requires a rulemaking, that provision shall take effect on the 
later of--
            (1) the date that is 360 days after the date of enactment 
        of this Act; or
            (2) the date that is 60 days after the publication in the 
        Federal Register of the final rule implementing the provision.
